             applied
             sciences
Article
A Symbol Recognition System for Single-Line Diagrams
Developed Using a Deep-Learning Approach
Hina Bhanbhro 1, *, Yew Kwang Hooi 1 , Worapan Kusakunniran 2                             and Zaira Hassan Amur 1

                                         1   Computer and Information Science Department, Universiti Teknologi PETRONAS,
                                             Seri Iskandar 32610, Malaysia; yewkwanghooi@utp.edu.my (Y.K.H.); zaira_20001009@utp.edu.my (Z.H.A.)
                                         2   Faculty of Information and Communication Technology, Mahidol University,
                                             Nakhon Pathom 73170, Thailand; worapan.kun@mahidol.edu
                                         *   Correspondence: hina_22007940@utp.edu.my


                                         Featured Application: The present study is among the first research efforts to generate aug-
                                         mented datasets of complex single-line diagrams to detect symbols using deep-learning-based
                                         algorithms. The work determines the impacts of augmented datasets on model performance and
                                         indicates future directions in the field of engineering drawings.

                                         Abstract: In numerous electrical power distribution systems and other engineering contexts, single-
                                         line diagrams (SLDs) are frequently used. The importance of digitizing these images is growing.
                                         This is primarily because better engineering practices are required in areas such as equipment
                                         maintenance, asset management, safety, and others. Processing and analyzing these drawings,
                                         however, is a difficult job. With enough annotated training data, deep neural networks perform
                                         better in many object detection applications. Based on deep-learning techniques, a dataset can be
                                         used to assess the overall quality of a visual system. Unfortunately, there are no such datasets for
                                         single-line diagrams available to the general research community. To augment real image datasets,
                                         generative adversarial networks (GANs) can be used to create a variety of more realistic training
                                         images. The goal of this study was to explain how deep-convolutional-GAN- (DCGAN) and least-
                                         squares-GAN- (LSGAN) generated images are evaluated for quality. In order to improve the datasets
                                         and confirm the effectiveness of synthetic datasets, our work blended synthetic images with actual
Citation: Bhanbhro, H.; Kwang Hooi,      images. Additionally, we added synthetic images to the original picture collection to prepare an
Y.; Kusakunniran, W.; Amur, Z.H. A       augmented dataset for symbol detection. In this scenario, we employed You Look Only Once
Symbol Recognition System for            (YOLO) V5, one of the versions of YOLO. The recognition performance was improved, reaching
Single-Line Diagrams Developed
                                         an accuracy of 95% with YOLO V5, after combining the actual images with the synthetic images
Using a Deep-Learning Approach.
                                         created by the DCGAN and LSGAN. By incorporating synthetic samples into the dataset, the overall
Appl. Sci. 2023, 13, 8816. https://
                                         quality of the training data was improved, and the learning process for the model became simpler.
doi.org/10.3390/app13158816
                                         Furthermore, the proposed method significantly improved symbol detection in SLDs, according to
Academic Editor: Steve Beeby             the findings of the experiments.
Received: 26 April 2023
Revised: 5 June 2023
                                         Keywords: DCGAN; LSGAN; synthetic images; single-line diagrams; YOLO V5
Accepted: 7 June 2023
Published: 30 July 2023


                                         1. Introduction
                                              There are numerous industries in which engineering documents continue to exist
Copyright: © 2023 by the authors.
                                         in paper format due to a lack of digitalization for automated systems [1]. Among such
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.
                                         documents, single-line diagrams (SLDs) pose a significant challenge in terms of interpre-
This article is an open access article
                                         tation and comprehension, as exemplified in Figure 1. These technical documents play
distributed under the terms and
                                         a crucial role in diverse fields, including electrical systems, power distribution systems,
conditions of the Creative Commons
                                         hazardous area layouts, and other structural layouts. Deciphering these drawings often
Attribution (CC BY) license (https://
                                         requires a considerable amount of time and the expertise of highly skilled engineers and
creativecommons.org/licenses/by/
4.0/).
                                         professionals [2,3].




Appl. Sci. 2023, 13, 8816. https://doi.org/10.3390/app13158816                                            https://www.mdpi.com/journal/applsci
Appl. Sci. 2023, 13, x FOR PEER REVIEW                                                                                                        2 of 27




Appl. Sci. 2023, 13, 8816                                                                                             2 of 26
                                  considerable amount of time and the expertise of highly skilled engineers and profession-
                                  als [2,3].




                                  Figure 1. A single-line diagram.
                                  Figure 1. A single-line diagram.
                                        The digitization of engineering drawings has gained significant importance in recent
                                        The digitization of engineering drawings has gained significant importance in recent
                                  years. This is partially due to the pressing need to enhance business procedures, such
                                  years. This is partially due to the pressing need to enhance business procedures, such as
                                  as equipment monitoring, risk analysis, safety checks, and other operations. It is also
                                  equipment monitoring, risk analysis, safety checks, and other operations. It is also driven
                                  driven by the remarkable advancements in computer vision and image understanding,
                                  by the remarkable
                                  particularly             advancements
                                                  in the fields    of gaming     inand
                                                                                     computer
                                                                                          AI [4],vision
                                                                                                  NLP [5],andhealth
                                                                                                                image[6], understanding,      particu-
                                                                                                                             and others. Machine
                                  larly in  the  fields  of  gaming     and   AI   [4],  NLP   [5], health  [6],  and
                                  learning and deep learning (DL) [7] have significantly improved performance in variousothers.   Machine   learning
                                  and deep Machine
                                  domains.     learning (DL)
                                                           vision,[7]inhave   significantly
                                                                         particular,           improved
                                                                                        has greatly         performance
                                                                                                      benefited     from DLin     various domains.
                                                                                                                                [8,9].
                                  Machine     vision,   in particular,     has   greatly   benefited   from   DL
                                        Convolutional neural networks (CNNs) have made remarkable progress in recent[8,9].
                                  yearsConvolutional
                                         and are widelyneural  used in networks
                                                                          various (CNNs)        have made
                                                                                      image-related     tasks, remarkable        progress in recent
                                                                                                                 including biometric-based         au-
                                  years  and    are  widely    used    in various     image-related     tasks,   including     biometric-based
                                  thentication [10], image classification, handwriting recognition, and object recognition [11].                   au-
                                  thentication
                                  The  advancements[10], image
                                                            in imageclassification,
                                                                         segmentation,  handwriting      recognition,
                                                                                             classification,   and object  andrecognition
                                                                                                                                 object recognition
                                                                                                                                              prior to
                                  [11]. The   advancements        in image     segmentation,      classification,
                                  CNNs were incremental and limited. However, the introduction of CNNs               and   object  recognition   prior
                                                                                                                                     has completely
                                  to CNNs      were   incremental       and    limited.    However,     the  introduction
                                  transformed this field [11]. For example, Taigman et al. introduced the DeepFace              of  CNNs   has   com-
                                                                                                                                                    fa-
                                  pletely
                                  cial      transformed
                                       recognition     system,thiswhich
                                                                   field [11].
                                                                            wasFor firstexample,
                                                                                         implementedTaigman     et al. introduced
                                                                                                           on Facebook       in 2014,the   DeepFace
                                                                                                                                       achieving    an
                                  facial recognition
                                  accuracy    of 97.35%, system,     whichconventional
                                                             surpassing       was first implemented
                                                                                              systems byon      Facebook in 2014,
                                                                                                             approximately              achieving an
                                                                                                                                  27% [12].
                                  accuracy    of  97.35%,    surpassing     conventional       systems   by   approximately
                                        Despite notable advancements in image processing and analysis, the digitization            27%  [12].       of
                                        Despite    notable     advancements         in image    processing    and    analysis,
                                  single-line diagrams (SLDs) and the automated interpretation of these drawings continue        the  digitization   of
                                  single-line    diagrams     (SLDs)    and   the   automated     interpretation      of
                                  to pose significant challenges [13]. Presently, most methods rely on traditional image these  drawings    continue
                                  to pose significant
                                  processing     techniqueschallenges     [13]. Presently,
                                                                that necessitate        manualmost   methods
                                                                                                  feature         rely on These
                                                                                                            extraction.     traditional   image pro-
                                                                                                                                     approaches    are
                                  cessingdomain-specific,
                                  highly     techniques that susceptible
                                                                    necessitate to    manual    feature
                                                                                        noise and    dataextraction.
                                                                                                            distribution   These    approaches
                                                                                                                              variations,  and tendare
                                  highly
                                  to focusdomain-specific,        susceptible
                                             on addressing specific                to noise
                                                                             aspects          and
                                                                                         of the     data distribution
                                                                                                problem,     such as symbolvariations,   and tend
                                                                                                                                   detection         to
                                                                                                                                               or text
                                  focus on addressing
                                  separation.                 specific aspects
                                                  The performance          of these of models
                                                                                       the problem,     suchinfluenced
                                                                                                 is greatly    as symbol detection       or text
                                                                                                                              by the quality    ofsep-
                                                                                                                                                   the
                                  aration. The
                                  provided         performance
                                              training    data. of these models is greatly influenced by the quality of the pro-
                                  videdEven
                                          training   data.
                                                in challenging      and less-controlled environments, fundamental image segmen-
                                  tationEven
                                          andin  other   processing
                                                   challenging      andtasks,      such as object
                                                                          less-controlled             detection fundamental
                                                                                               environments,        and tracking,image have segmen-
                                                                                                                                              become
                                  considerably
                                  tation and other  lessprocessing
                                                          difficult. tasks,
                                                                        Recent     methods,
                                                                                such   as objectsuch   as faster
                                                                                                  detection    andregions
                                                                                                                      tracking,with
                                                                                                                                  haveconvolutional
                                                                                                                                        become con-
                                  neural
                                  siderablynetworks     (Faster Recent
                                               less diﬃcult.     R-CNNs)        [13], single-stage
                                                                            methods,                 detection
                                                                                          such as faster   regions (SSD)
                                                                                                                       with[14], region-based
                                                                                                                              convolutional      fully
                                                                                                                                               neural
                                  convolutional networks [15], and You Only Look Once (YOLO) [16], have demonstrated
                                  high performance in object recognition and classification applications. These methods,
Appl. Sci. 2023, 13, 8816                                                                                           3 of 26




                            along with their extensions, have addressed major obstacles, such as noise, orientation, and
                            image quality, leading to significant advancements in this field of study [17].
                                  Insufficient datasets for the training process pose another significant challenge in the
                            digitization of engineering documents [18]. Deep-learning models require vast numbers of
                            data for effective training. Given the industry’s heavy reliance on manual interpretation of
                            these documents, there has been limited effort in generating the drawings automatically,
                            making it challenging for researchers to acquire labeled data. To tackle this issue, data
                            augmentation techniques have been introduced in recent years [19].
                                  Generative models have also undergone significant advancement and have been
                            effectively used in numerous applications. Generative adversarial networks have recently
                            emerged as some of the most well-known and frequently employed tools for producing
                            content. Ian Goodfellow first presented GANs in 2014 [20]. We will go over our approach
                            based on GANs to solve the issue of an imbalanced dataset in the Methods section. Another
                            difficult issue that affects a wide range of fields, including engineering diagrams, is when
                            several classes of symbols in the drawings are either over-represented or underserved in
                            the dataset [21].
                                  This article provides a comprehensive analysis of the YOLO V5 model for object
                            identification, with a specific focus on one-line symbols. We utilized custom datasets of
                            single-line engineering drawings to locate and classify these symbols. Our dataset consists
                            of 16 distinct categories encompassing typical engineering symbols commonly found in
                            single-line diagrams. To the best of our knowledge, no prior studies have evaluated a
                            substantial number of deep-learning-based object detectors specifically designed for the
                            recognition of single-line symbols, while considering crucial factors, such as precision,
                            recall, and F1 scores.

                            1.1. Contributions of This Study
                                 This study makes the following key contributions:
                            •    The utilization of a DCGAN and an LSGAN to generate mixed-quality single-line
                                 symbols;
                            •    The combination of original and synthetic datasets to create an augmented dataset,
                                 thereby improving classification accuracy;
                            •    The proposal of a YOLO-based solution to enhance performance in single-line symbol
                                 classification and recognition tasks. As part of this effort, the YOLO V5 training set is
                                 expanded by incorporating newly generated synthetic data;
                            •    A comprehensive comparison and analysis of classification accuracy between the
                                 original dataset and the augmented dataset.

                            1.2. Structure of the Study
                                 The structure of this study project is as follows. A discussion of recently published
                            research is presented in Section 2. Section 3 describes the approach that we propose.
                            Section 4 describes the experiments and their results. Section 5 offers a detailed discussion
                            of our findings, and our conclusions and suggestions for additional research are given in
                            Section 6.

                            2. Related Works
                                This section covers recent accomplishments made by the research community in this
                            domain. We discuss different deep-learning techniques used for digitizing engineering
                            drawings, and later we present GANs and discuss the general architecture and recent
                            advancements made to improve the performance of GANs.

                            2.1. Digitization of Engineering Documents
                                Engineering drawings commonly incorporate diverse forms, symbolic shapes, solid or
                            dashed lines, and text to depict intricate engineering processes in a condensed and com-
                            prehensive manner. These technical drawings find extensive application across multiple
Appl. Sci. 2023, 13, 8816                                                                                          4 of 26




                            disciplines. Over the past decade, considerable research efforts have been dedicated to
                            machine vision with the aim of digitizing these sketches [22–25]. With remarkable progress
                            in computer vision and machine learning, coupled with the existence of vast numbers
                            of undigitized legacy data, the need for a fully automated framework to digitize these
                            drawings has become more imperative than ever before.
                                  One primary limitation of learning methods is their heavy reliance on extensive feature
                            extraction, which is highly dependent on the quality of the extracted features and often
                            lacks generalizability to unobserved instances [26]. The existing literature in this domain
                            has primarily focused on addressing specific aspects of digitizing engineering diagrams,
                            rather than providing a comprehensive and fully automated framework, as indicated by a
                            recent comprehensive review [27]. Some studies have concentrated on the identification
                            and categorization of common symbols in engineering drawings, as well as the separation
                            of text from other graphical elements in diagrams, employing image processing techniques
                            for line identification and deep-learning methods for symbol detection [28]. Alternatively,
                            heuristic strategies have been employed in other studies to locate and classify components
                            in drawings using approaches such as random forests, achieving precision levels exceeding
                            90% [29], or to discern and differentiate text from graphic elements [30–33]. However, these
                            approaches may require the modification of heuristic rules or the development of new ones
                            when there are changes to the schematic or symbol representations [34]. Additionally, the
                            effectiveness of these approaches heavily relies on a balanced distribution of data across
                            the dataset.
                                  In recent years, attempts have been made to apply deep-learning-based techniques to
                            tasks similar to the digitization of engineering drawings [35]. Some studies have utilized
                            techniques based on single-stage detection (SSD) to identify doors, windows, and furniture
                            objects in floor-plan diagrams, yielding positive results [36]. However, these studies
                            used small datasets with an insufficient number of furniture items in each drawing [37].
                            The unbalanced distribution of object classes within these datasets leads to a decline in
                            performance [38,39].
                                  Symbol recognition in process and instrumentation diagrams (P&IDs) is a closely
                            related field. The complexity of P&IDs introduces various challenges in symbol recognition,
                            including adjacent lines, overlapping symbols, unclear regions, and similarity between
                            symbols [40]. A study evaluated four classification tools, namely, multi-stage deep neural
                            networks, hidden Markov models, K-nearest neighbors, and support vector machines
                            (SVMs), using both synthetic and original drawing sheet datasets [41]. Although the SVM
                            model demonstrated the best performance, all techniques involved grouping symbols
                            before classification and removing lines for clearer observation. Additionally, a faster
                            R-CNN was employed to detect and classify handwritten symbols in technical diagrams,
                            with a focus on specific document types, such as PFDs and flowcharts, achieving favorable
                            results compared to traditional methods.
                                  Various frameworks have been proposed for interpreting engineering sheets and
                            P&ID drawings using deep-learning models. The combination of heuristic-based methods
                            with deep-learning techniques has shown promising results in component detection for
                            engineering drawings. A two-stage process was employed, involving Euclidean metrics to
                            connect pipeline tags and symbols, as well as the probabilistic Hough transform for pipeline
                            detection, to localize symbols and text. Another approach utilized a fully linked convolu-
                            tional neural network to develop symbol localization techniques [42]. A dataset comprising
                            672 process flow drawings was used to automate engineering drawings, resulting in im-
                            proved performance compared to conventional methods. However, accurate detection of
                            all components was not achieved, and the class accuracy for different components in the
                            drawings was around 64.0%.
                                  To capture the time-varying signal produced by pen movements during the sketching
                            process of a one-line hand-drawn electrical circuit diagram, hidden Markov models (HMMs)
                            were utilized [43]. A dataset containing 100 hand-drawn sketches was examined for this
                            purpose. The proposed approach, which employed HMMs, yielded promising outcomes. It
Appl. Sci. 2023, 13, 8816                                                                                                 5 of 26




                                 achieved an accuracy of more than 83% in classifying the points associated with connector
                                 and symbol categories correctly.
                                       A circuit-diagram recognition system was developed to address sketch recognition as
                                 a dynamic programming problem, incorporating a novel technique called 2D-DP [44]. The
                                 2D-DP technique demonstrated successful identification of interspersed symbols within
                                 the sketches. The method introduced a tolerant connectivity function cost, which proved ef-
                                 fective in recognizing free-form sketches. The experiment involved analyzing 130 sketches
                                 containing ten different types of electrical symbols. Point-level measurements revealed that
                                 the novel approach achieved an accuracy of over 90 percent. A grammar-based parsing
                                 strategy for recognition of hand-drawn one-line diagrams was introduced to evaluate the
                                 system on UML use-case diagrams, showing an improved recognition accuracy [45]. How-
                                 ever, further accurate and formal user studies are necessary to understand the strategy’s
                                 limitations and explore potential enhancements.
                                       The adoption of advanced deep-learning methodologies has resulted in significant
                                 improvements in the detection and recognition of notations and symbols in musical doc-
                                 uments [46]. Techniques such as Faster R-CNNs, R-FCNs, YOLO, and SSD have been
                                 successfully applied to identify handwritten musical symbols, demonstrating superior
                                 performance compared to traditional structured image processing methods for symbol
                                 recognition and detection [21,47].
                                       In summary, the existing research highlights a notable gap between the current state
                                 of machine learning and technical image comprehension. This discrepancy arises from the
                                 rapid progress in the field juxtaposed with the uneven and incremental advancements in a
                                 critical application area that has implications across various sectors.

                                 2.2. GAN Networks
                                       Generative adversarial networks (GANs) were first presented by Ian Goodfellow in
                                 2014 [48]. GAN networks are thought of as generative models that can create unique
                                 and fresh content [21]. The generator (G) and the discriminator (D) are two competing
                                 models (such as CNNs, neural networks, etc.) that make up GANs. The discriminator
                                 serves as a classifier that receives input from the generator and the training set (fake
                                 input and authentic input). The discriminator will learn how to differentiate between real
                                 input samples and fake input samples fed into the network during the training procedure.
                                 However, the generator is taught to create samples that accurately reflect the fundamental
                                 properties of the original content [49].
                                       As depicted in Figure 2, the generator is a network that uses current data to produce
                                 new, realistic pictures. An image is created using random noise z. The generator’s objective
                                 is to deceive the discriminator into believing that the fake image it produces is genuine [48].
                                 Equation (1) is a possible way to describe this scenario. When a sample produced by the
                                 generator is discriminated against, the generator attempts to reduce the discriminator’s
                                 accuracy as much as possible [50].

Appl. Sci. 2023, 13, x FOR PEER REVIEW                           minG V(G) = Ez~px(z) [log(1 − D(G(z))]                  6 of(1)
                                                                                                                              27




                                 Figure2.2.The
                                 Figure     T h egenerator.
                                                   g enerator.

                                       As seen in Figure 3, the discriminator is a network for diﬀerentiating the images. It
                                  determines whether an input image is a fake image created by the generator or a genuine
                                  image that already exists. The discriminator’s job is to highlight diﬀerences between the
                                  actual image that already exists and the fake image produced by the generator. Equation
Appl. Sci. 2023, 13, 8816                                                                                                              6 of 26


                                   Figure 2. T h e g enerator.
                                         As seen in Figure 3, the discriminator is a network for differentiating the images. It
                                         As seen
                                  determines       in Figure
                                                 whether   an 3,  the image
                                                              input    discriminator
                                                                               is a fakeisimage
                                                                                            a network
                                                                                                  createdforby
                                                                                                             diﬀerentiating
                                                                                                               the generatorthe
                                                                                                                              or aimages.
                                                                                                                                   genuineIt
                                   determines
                                  image          whetherexists.
                                           that already    an inputTheimage     is a fake image
                                                                        discriminator’s     job iscreated   by the
                                                                                                   to highlight     generator between
                                                                                                                  differences  or a genuine
                                                                                                                                         the
                                   imageimage
                                  actual    that already  exists.exists
                                                  that already     The and
                                                                         discriminator’s
                                                                             the fake image  jobproduced
                                                                                                 is to highlight
                                                                                                            by thediﬀerences
                                                                                                                    generator. between
                                                                                                                               Equation the
                                                                                                                                          (2)
                                   actual
                                  is       imageway
                                     a possible    thatoalready
                                                          describe exists
                                                                     this. and  the fake the
                                                                            Minimizing     image   produced
                                                                                               difference      by thethe
                                                                                                           between     generator.
                                                                                                                         real dataEquation
                                                                                                                                   distribu-
                                   (2) ispx
                                  tion    a possible  way to describe
                                             and the artificial           this. Minimizing
                                                                data distribution      px(z) isthe
                                                                                                thediﬀerence
                                                                                                     main goalbetween
                                                                                                                  of GANthe   real data
                                                                                                                           training.    dis-
                                                                                                                                     When
                                   tribution   px  and  the artificial  data  distribution     px(z)  is the main   goal of GAN
                                  discriminating a real sample, the discriminator seeks to optimize accuracy (D(x)), and when      training.
                                   When discriminating
                                  separating    fake samples a real
                                                                fromsample,     the discriminator
                                                                       real samples                               − D(G) [50].
                                                                                                       seeks to 1optimize
                                                                                       it seeks to maximize                accuracy (D(x)),
                                   and when separating fake samples from real samples it seeks to maximize 1 − D(G) [50].
                                                      maxD V(D) = Ez~px(z) [logD(x)] + Ez~px(z) [log(1 − D(G(z))]                         (2)
                                                    maxD V (D) = Ez ~px(z) [log D(x)] +Ez ~px (z) [log (1 − D(G(z))]                       (2)




                                  Figure3.3.The
                                  Figure     Thediscriminator.
                                                 discriminator.

                                        The GAN
                                        The  GAN network
                                                    network architecture
                                                              architecture isis depicted
                                                                                depicted in
                                                                                          in Figure
                                                                                              Figure 4,
                                                                                                      4, which
                                                                                                         which includes
                                                                                                                 includes the
                                                                                                                            the generator
                                                                                                                                generator
                                   and discriminator.
                                  and   discriminator.The
                                                        The generator
                                                            generator inin a GAN is responsible for producing fictitious pictures.
                                   Todetermine
                                  To   determinewhich
                                                   whichpicture
                                                          pictureisisreal
                                                                      realand
                                                                           andwhich
                                                                                 whichisisfake,
                                                                                           fake,the
                                                                                                 thediscriminator
                                                                                                      discriminatorusesuses either
                                                                                                                             either aa fake
                                                                                                                                        fake
                                   image
                                  image   created   by the generator   or an   already  existing  real  image.   The  generator
                                                       the generator or an already existing real image. The generator and         and    dis-
                                   criminator willwill
                                  discriminator      evolve in an
                                                        evolve  in adversarial
                                                                    an adversarialmanner   afterafter
                                                                                       manner    thousands     of iterations.
                                                                                                       thousands              As a conse-
                                                                                                                     of iterations.   As a
                                   quence, the generator
                                  consequence,              will be
                                                  the generator      able
                                                                  will be to  produce
                                                                           able         pictures
                                                                                 to produce       that resemble
                                                                                              pictures              actualactual
                                                                                                         that resemble      pictures.   This
                                                                                                                                 pictures.
                                  This  canstated
                                   can be    be stated
                                                  usingusing  the goal
                                                         the goal        function
                                                                   function   of theofGAN
                                                                                       the GAN     (Equation
                                                                                             (Equation          (3)).discriminator
                                                                                                          (3)). The   The discriminator
                                                                                                                                      seeks
                                  seeks  to increase
                                   to increase  the Vthe  V value,
                                                      value, whilewhile    the generator
                                                                     the generator    seeksseeks   to reduce
                                                                                            to reduce    the Vthe   V value
                                                                                                                value  [51]. [51].
 Appl. Sci. 2023, 13, x FOR PEER REVIEW       minG
                                               minGmaxD
                                                    maxDV (D, G)==Ez~px(z)
                                                        V(D,G)     Ez ~px(z) [log D(x)]
                                                                           [logD(x)] + E+E z ~px(z)
                                                                                        z~px(z)
                                                                                                    [log
                                                                                                [log(1 − (1 − D(G(z))] 7 of(3)
                                                                                                         D(G(z))]           (3)
                                                                                                                             27




                                   Figure4.4.Generative
                                  Figure     Generativeadversarial
                                                        adversarialnetworks.
                                                                    networks.

                                       To
                                        Toenhance
                                            enhancethe
                                                     theoverall
                                                          overallperformance
                                                                   performanceof  ofGANs,
                                                                                     GANs,numerous
                                                                                             numerousstudy
                                                                                                         studyprojects
                                                                                                                projectshave
                                                                                                                         havebeen
                                                                                                                                been
                                  focused   on various
                                   focused on various   GAN     variants. BigGAN     models  were  developed   by Brock  et
                                                                          BigGAN models were developed by Brock et al. [52] al. [52]
                                                                                                                                   to
                                  to accomplishthe
                                   accomplish    thetask
                                                      taskofofproducing
                                                               producingdistinctive
                                                                           distinctive images
                                                                                        images with high resolution
                                                                                                          resolution from
                                                                                                                      fromvarious
                                                                                                                            various
                                  datasets.
                                   datasets.The
                                             TheImageNet
                                                 ImageNetdataset’s    challenging
                                                               dataset’s challengingsamples as well
                                                                                       samples      as high-resolution
                                                                                                as well                 images
                                                                                                        as high-resolution       can
                                                                                                                            images
                                   can both be processed by the image identification algorithm. An alternative generator de-
                                   sign dubbed StyleGAN was proposed by Karras et al. [53]. The style of the generated im-
                                   age can be dynamically changed based on the most recent data in all convolutional layers
                                   thanks to a newly introduced architecture for the generator that the authors created. It
Appl. Sci. 2023, 13, 8816                                                                                            7 of 26




                            both be processed by the image identification algorithm. An alternative generator design
                            dubbed StyleGAN was proposed by Karras et al. [53]. The style of the generated image can
                            be dynamically changed based on the most recent data in all convolutional layers thanks
                            to a newly introduced architecture for the generator that the authors created. It aids in
                            directing the complete process of synthesizing pictures, which starts with images of low
                            resolution and progresses to high-resolution images, by beginning with that resolution.
                                  Effective texture synthesis tools called Markovian generative adversarial networks
                            (MGANs) were developed by Wang and Wang [32]. Brown noise can be directly decoded
                            into a realistic texture; on the other hand, these networks can also decode images into
                            the artwork, improving the quality of texture. A GAN-based architecture called spatial
                            GAN (SGAN), which is excellent for generating texture, was developed by Bergmann
                            et al. [34]. This method can combine numerous versatile source photographs to produce
                            diverse textures and produce high-quality texture images.
                                  In order to overcome the GAN’s limitations, the research in [53] explored the use
                            of deep convolutional GANs, which are also referred to as DCGANs. DCGANs address
                            the GAN’s limitations by replacing max-pooling layers with convolutional layers that
                            have larger or fractional strides. This approach facilitates the use of a unified architectural
                            framework to achieve multiple objectives. In the DCGAN model, the generator competes
                            with the discriminator, incentivizing the generator to produce visually appealing images.
                            In certain situations, its instability can make it difficult to apply in various domains due to
                            the structure of the fully connected network.
                                  Another GAN variant, the least-squares generative adversarial network (LSGAN),
                            has two advantages over traditional GANs. Firstly, LSGANs can generate clearer images
                            than regular GANs. Secondly, LSGANs have more consistent success during the learning
                            process. Traditional GANs are unstable during learning, making it difficult to use them in
                            practice [54]. Several recent studies have investigated how the objective function affects the
                            uncertainty of GAN learning.

                            3. Proposed Method
                                 In this paper, we present our approach for symbol recognition in SLD images. The
                            details of our approach are outlined in Section 3.1, while Section 3.2 provides information
                            on the dataset used for testing, including data exploration and preprocessing techniques.
                            To tackle the class imbalance issue in these drawings, we present our proposed solution in
                            Section 3.3. Furthermore, Section 3.4 elaborates on the object detection method employed
                            in our study.

                            3.1. SLD Symbol Recognition Method
                                  The following section will discuss the process of generating synthetic data for single-
                            line symbol identification in our system using a DCGAN and an LSGAN. A comprehensive
                            illustration of the system’s methodology is presented in Figure 5. The experiment was
                            divided into two parts: (a) the generation of synthetic images through the DCGAN and
                            LSGAN; and (b) the detection of symbols in original and augmented images (combining
                            original images with synthetic images generated by the DCGAN and LSGAN).
                                              The following section will discuss the process of generating synthetic data for single-
                                         line symbol identification in our system using a DCGAN and an LSGAN. A
                                         comprehensive illustration of the system’s methodology is presented in Figure 5. The
                                         experiment was divided into two parts: (a) the generation of synthetic images through the
 Appl. Sci. 2023, 13, 8816               DCGAN and LSGAN; and (b) the detection of symbols in original and augmented images   8 of 26
                                         (combining original images with synthetic images generated by the DCGAN and
                                         LSGAN).


                                                            Original SLD Images



                                                              Training DCGAN

                                                              Training LSGAN
                         Original Samples                    Image Generation                         Synthetic Samples



                                                                                                                         YOLO
                                                                            Training Set
                             Original Dataset
                                                                            Testing Set
                             Generated Dataset
     SLD Image                                                            Validation Set

                                                                Symbol Detection
                                                                                                                  Detected Symbols


                                                       SLD Symbol Spotting System

                                       Figure5.5.The
                                      Figure      Thestructure
                                                       structureofofthe
                                                                      theSLD
                                                                          SLD  symbol
                                                                             symbol   spottingsystem.
                                                                                    spotting    system.

                                      3.2.
                                        3.2.Dataset
                                             DatasetSLD
                                                     SLDDiagrams
                                                         Diagrams
Appl. Sci. 2023, 13, x FOR PEER REVIEW      InInthis
                                                  thisarticle,
                                                       article,we
                                                                wechose
                                                                    chosetotoconduct
                                                                              conductexperiments
                                                                                        experimentsusing
                                                                                                      usingsingle-line
                                                                                                             single-linediagrams
                                                                                                                           diagrams(SLDs),
                                                                                                                                       9 of 27asas
                                                                                                                                      (SLDs),
                                      shown
                                        shownininFigure
                                                     Figure1.1.For
                                                                Forevaluation
                                                                    evaluationpurposes,
                                                                                 purposes,our
                                                                                            ourengineering
                                                                                                engineeringpartner
                                                                                                               partnerprovided
                                                                                                                          provideda acollection
                                                                                                                                      collection
                                      ofof600
                                           600sheets
                                                 sheetscontaining
                                                         containingvarious
                                                                      varioustypes
                                                                                typesofofsymbols,
                                                                                          symbols,lines,
                                                                                                    lines,and
                                                                                                           andtext,
                                                                                                                text,asasdepicted
                                                                                                                          depictedinin
                                                                                                                                     Figure
                                                                                                                                       Figure 6. 6.
                                              The SLDs also came in a variety of qualities, which made the dataset appropriate for
                                        assessment. The SLD sheets can be viewed as schematic representations of the various
                                        electrical system parts and connectivity data. They are illustrations of electrical equipment
                                        (often represented as symbols) and power flow movement (represented as various kinds
                                        of lines).
                                              These diagrams can be found in many sectors as paper documents or scanned
                                        images. It takes a lot of time, eﬀort, and expertise to interpret and analyze these documents
                                        [15]. Furthermore, misreading these papers can result in very serious consequences. For
                                        instance, if a wire in an electrical system needs to be changed after installation, an engineer
                                        must check the corresponding SLD diagram and determine which safety measures must
                                        be taken before proceeding with the task. Thus, it is crucial to understand these drawings
                                        accurately.

                                       Figure 6. Example of individual symbols in a typical SLD.
                                     Figure 6. Example of individual symbols in a typical SLD.
                                              The SLDs also came in a variety of qualities, which made the dataset appropriate for
                                            We used GANs
                                       assessment.    The SLD  to sheets
                                                                  create can
                                                                          artificial symbolaspictures
                                                                               be viewed        schematicas representations
                                                                                                             part of the dataof  preparation
                                                                                                                                   the various
                                     process.
                                       electrical system parts and connectivity data. They are illustrations of electrical collection
                                                The  dataset  was  additionally    split into  two  categories. The  first group    equipment
                                     only   included
                                       (often         actualas
                                               represented    images.   Bothand
                                                                 symbols)     thepower
                                                                                  actual flow
                                                                                           images   and the generated
                                                                                                 movement    (representedimages   createdkinds
                                                                                                                             as various   by
                                     the
                                       of DCGAN
                                           lines). and LSGAN were included in the second group dataset. The first group da-
                                     taset only   included
                                              These diagrams original
                                                                can bepictures,
                                                                        found inwhile
                                                                                   many the    other
                                                                                           sectors ascombined    the original
                                                                                                      paper documents           imagesimages.
                                                                                                                           or scanned   with
                                     GAN-generated
                                       It takes a lot of synthetic  images,
                                                          time, effort,       as represented
                                                                        and expertise            in Table
                                                                                          to interpret    1. analyze these documents [15].
                                                                                                        and
                                       Furthermore, misreading these papers can result in very serious consequences. For instance,
                                     Table 1. Dataset combinations.

                                                                                                         Synthetic Images
                                              Group                   Original Images
                                                                                                      DCGAN           LSGAN
                                                 1                             ✓
   Appl. Sci. 2023, 13, 8816                                                                                                    9 of 26




                                   if a wire in an electrical system needs to be changed after installation, an engineer must
                                   check the corresponding SLD diagram and determine which safety measures must be taken
                                   before proceeding with the task. Thus, it is crucial to understand these drawings accurately.
                                         We used GANs to create artificial symbol pictures as part of the data preparation
                                   process. The dataset was additionally split into two categories. The first group collection
                                   only included actual images. Both the actual images and the generated images created
                                   by the DCGAN and LSGAN were included in the second group dataset. The first group
                                   dataset only included original pictures, while the other combined the original images with
                                   GAN-generated synthetic images, as represented in Table 1.

                                   Table 1. Dataset combinations.

                                                                                                    Synthetic Images
                                            Group              Original Images
                                                                                            DCGAN                    LSGAN
                                               1                       X
                                               2                       X                       X                        X


                                   Analysis of SLD Data
                                            The large SLD sheets in the original data measured 7000 by 5000 pixels. We divided
                                       the sheet into a 6 × 4 grid to speed up the training, creating 24 patches of sub-images that
                                       were relatively small compared to the original pictures (1250 × 1300).
                                            Images and schematics must be completely annotated to prepare a deep-learning
                                       model for training. Thus, we annotated the set of SLD images using the RoboFlow tool,
                                       which can be seen in Figure 7. In the entire collection, 16 different symbols were annotated.
Appl. Sci. 2023, 13, x FOR PEER REVIEW The process of annotating a diagram is straightforward, and in this case involved employing
                                                                                                                         10 of 27
                                       the RoboFlow tool to note the classes of the associated symbols and their locations.




                               Figure 7. Symbol
                                  Figure        annotation
                                          7. Symbol        in part
                                                    annotation     of an
                                                               in part ofSLD  image.
                                                                          an SLD image.

                                    TheThe
                                         datadata
                                              that that resulted
                                                    resulted fromfrom     the annotation
                                                                     the annotation   were were
                                                                                           savedsaved     inthat
                                                                                                  in a file  a file that represented
                                                                                                                 represented   the
                                   the 16 unique
                               16 unique  classes. classes. The
                                                   The center  ofcenter   of the bounding
                                                                  the bounding               boxes’
                                                                                   boxes’ x and     x and as
                                                                                                y values,   y values,  as well
                                                                                                               well as the      as the
                                                                                                                           widths
                               andwidths
                                    heightsand
                                            of theights  of the
                                                   symbols   thatsymbols   that the
                                                                   the bounding      bounding
                                                                                   boxes        boxes
                                                                                         enclosed,     enclosed,
                                                                                                    were   captured were  captured
                                                                                                                      as data. The as
                                   data. The
                               collection    collection
                                          of 600 images, ofwhich
                                                            600 images,    which
                                                                    included      included
                                                                               1953 samples1953  samples representing
                                                                                              representing                 16 various
                                                                                                              16 various sorts  of
                               symbols, was annotated. As can be seen in Figure 8, the original sample was incredibly
                               unbalanced.


                                                          Original Sample Distribution
                            Figure 7. Symbol annotation in part of an SLD image.

                                  The data that resulted from the annotation were saved in a file that represented the
Appl. Sci. 2023, 13, 8816                                                                                            10 of 26
                             16 unique classes. The center of the bounding boxes’ x and y values, as well as the widths
                             and heights of the symbols that the bounding boxes enclosed, were captured as data. The
                             collection of 600 images, which included 1953 samples representing 16 various sorts of
                            sorts  of symbols,
                             symbols,           was annotated.
                                        was annotated. As can beAs   caninbeFigure
                                                                   seen       seen in
                                                                                    8, Figure  8, thesample
                                                                                       the original   original
                                                                                                            wassample   was
                                                                                                                 incredibly
                            incredibly
                             unbalanced.unbalanced.


                                                            Original Sample Distribution
                              450
                              400
                              350
                              300
                              250
                              200
                              150
                              100
                               50
                                0




                            Figure8.
                            Figure 8. Class
                                      Class distribution
                                            distribution in
                                                          in the
                                                              the original
                                                                  originaldataset.
                                                                           dataset.

                                  The differences
                                 The   diﬀerences between
                                                    between symbols
                                                             symbols can
                                                                      can be
                                                                           be extremely
                                                                               extremely great
                                                                                          great in
                                                                                                 in some
                                                                                                    some cases.
                                                                                                           cases. For instance,
                             thereare
                            there  are425
                                        425instances
                                             instances
                                                     ofof switch
                                                       switch    symbols
                                                              symbols      in the
                                                                       in the     dataset,
                                                                              dataset,     compared
                                                                                       compared         to3just
                                                                                                   to just   and36and  6 occur-
                                                                                                                   occurrences
                             rences
                            of      of resistor
                               resistor          and ammeter
                                         and ammeter           symbols,
                                                        symbols,        respectively.
                                                                 respectively.         Fuses
                                                                                Fuses and     andonly
                                                                                           loads    loadsoccur
                                                                                                           only 10
                                                                                                                occur  10 times
                                                                                                                   times  each,
                             each, although
                            although           these symbols
                                       these symbols          were excluded
                                                       were excluded  from thefrom  the original
                                                                                 original datasetdataset    due to exceptional
                                                                                                   due to exceptional   under-
                            representation.
                             under-representation.

                            3.3. Data Generation by GANs
                                  To ensure that the CNN backbone network of the YOLO V5 model can be trained and
                            classify images by using features from previously illustrated pictures, the DCGAN provides
                            a set of requirements. With its original settings, the DCGAN substitutes the pooling layers
                            on the discriminator and generator with strangled convolutions. CNNs are frequently used
                            to identify traits. Second, to address the gradient disappearance problem, the DCGAN
                            uses the batch normalization method. Every layer in BN has a gradient propagator built in,
                            guaranteeing that the gradient reaches every layer while preventing the generator model
                            from collecting all instances at the respective point. A major concern in this context is that
                            the DCGAN employs various activation functions for various neural networks, including
                            leakyReLU; the ReLU function, which is used for activation; and Adam optimization. The
                            results show that the DCGAN provides better efficiency. When combined with the LSGAN,
                            the DCGAN is generally regarded as the gold standard.
                                  Regarding the images generated by the DCGAN and LSGAN, there were 1000 images
                            of size 32 × 32 and 1000 images of size 64 × 64, respectively, as shown in Table 2, which
                            were then augmented with the original 600 images. The augmented dataset contained a
                            total of 4600 images after merging the original images with the synthetic images.

                            Table 2. Synthetic image generation using the DCGAN and LSGAN.

                                 Group           Total Images       Generated Image Size (px)     Total Images Generated
                                    1                 200                      64 × 64                      1000
                                    2                 200                      32 × 32                      1000
                                    3                 300                      64 × 64                      1000
                                    4                 300                      32 × 32                      1000
                                                                       J(D)(θ(G), θ(D)) = Eμ~pμ(μ)[log(1−D(G(μ)))]                                 (6)
                                            According to Goodfellow et al. [32], if D and G have suﬃcient capacity, the min–max
Appl. Sci. 2023, 13, 8816                                                                                                    11 of 26
                                        game has a global optimum for pg(φ)pdata(φd) (where pg is a probability distribution of the
                                        produced output φ when µ~pµ(µ)). The following characteristics describe the ideal dis-
                                                                (G)
                                        criminator for the J (G, D); Equation (7) represents the steps:
                                        3.3.1. Framework Structure of the DCGAN
                                         In this study, we used the DCGAN                        ( )
                                                                            D*(φd) =to create synthetic   pictures of single-line diagrams.(7)
                                                                                             (        ( )
                                   The synthetic images were then combined with the LSGAN-generated images and the
                                        The
                                   actual     calculation
                                           images           of min–max
                                                    to increase            in (3)
                                                                  our dataset  andcan   be represented
                                                                                     improve   the symbol inrecognition
                                                                                                             Equation (8)    as:
                                                                                                                           algorithms.  Other
                                   models improve upon DCGANs(φby) introducing new constraints or                (φ)by making    adjustments.
                       maxD J(G)(G, D)=E Asφdcan
                                              ~Pdata( d)[login Figure 9, a generative
                                                  beφseen                          ]+Eφ~pg[[log
                                                                                           adversarial network            ] of a generator
                                                                                                                     consists              (8)
                                                                      (φ      (φ)                             (φ       (φ)
                                   module (G) and a discriminator module (D). The generator’s job is to translate a random
                                        The discriminator loses the ability to diﬀerentiate between the actual dataset φd and
                                   dataset µ (which it uses as a source) into a desired output dataset ϕ. The random dataset µ
                                  the
                                   in agenerated
                                        conventionaldataset
                                                         GAN  φ when     D*(φd)
                                                                 is usually      = , which
                                                                             uniform           allows noise
                                                                                        or Gaussian    the generator    to useofany
                                                                                                               with a range          random
                                                                                                                                  zero to one.
                                  dataset   µ  to synthesize   the  generated   outputs    φ.
                                   The discriminator is used to separate the generated outputs ϕ from the actual datasets ϕd
                                        The generator’s
                                   (the targeted   outputs). and   discriminator’s
                                                               If the                 parameters
                                                                       intended outputs             θ(G) and
                                                                                            are accepted,   theθdiscriminator’s
                                                                                                                (D) can both be optimized
                                                                                                                                   D(ϕd) = 1,
                                  using
                                   while gradient-based      methods.
                                          if they are rejected,    D(G(µ)) = 0.




                                        Figure 9.
                                        Figure    Structure of
                                               9. Structure of the
                                                                theDCGAN.
                                                                   DCGAN.

                                                 Based
                                                 Due to on  a cross-entropy
                                                        their                  lossfor
                                                                poor suitability      function
                                                                                         storing(J(D,  G)), the
                                                                                                  positional     training
                                                                                                               data, DCGANs procedure  ininclude
                                                                                                                                  do not  a GAN lin-
                                                                                                                                                  can
                                           be viewed
                                          ear          aspooling
                                               layers or   a minimization–maximization
                                                                    layers. Instead, convolutionalproblem,   as written
                                                                                                          networks    makein Equation   (4):
                                                                                                                              up the networks    used
                                          by DCGANs. The other advantage of a DCGAN is that, when the input data’s layer dis-
                                                       minG maxD = Eϕd~Pdata (ϕd) [logD(ϕd )] + Eµ~pµ(µ) [log(1 − D(G(µ)))]                        (4)
                                          tribution is biased, it employs batch         normalization to correct the mean and variance. The
                                          network
                                          where pdatakeeps   stacking
                                                        (d) is         the convolutional
                                                                the corresponding              layersdata
                                                                                        probability    untildistribution
                                                                                                              reaching the forshape  32 × 32 ×outputs
                                                                                                                               the intended    3 with
                                          the
                                           ϕd final transposed
                                                and pµ(µ)          convolutional
                                                            is a prior distributionlayer,     as random
                                                                                        for the  shown indatasets
                                                                                                             Figure 9.
                                                                                                                     µ and pdata (ϕd).
                                                 The min–max process involves two steps, as expressed in Equation (5):
                                          3.3.2. Network Structure of the LSGAN
                            J(D) (θ(G) ,θ(D) ) = Another
                                                 Eϕd~Pdata GAN
                                                           (ϕd) [logD(ϕ
                                                                             (D)
                                                                         d ,θ used
                                                                  variation      )] +for
                                                                                       Eµ~pµ(µ)  [log(1
                                                                                          this work      − D(G(µ)),θ
                                                                                                     is the
                                                                                                                       (G) (D)
                                                                                                            least-squares  ,θGAN)] (LSGAN), which  (5)
                                        can be seen in Figure 10. The LSGAN has some benefits over other GANs: (a) the LSGAN
                                        where p       (d) is the corresponding probability data distribution for the intended outputs
                                        improvesdatathe initial loss function in the GAN by substituting the least-squares loss func-
                                         d and p(d) is a prior distribution for the random dataset.
                                        tion for the original cross-entropy loss function. This technique fixes significant(G)             traditional
                                              Changing the generator by minimizing the generator function or minθ (G)J θ(D) , θ(G)
                                        GAN issues;    and (b) the LSGAN increases the convergence speed and the training process
                                        (where θ(G) denotes the parameter in the cost functions of the generator and the function
                                        stability
                                          (G)     and results in greater image clarity. Similar to conventional GANs, ReLU and
                                         J is differentiable), yields Equation (6):
                                        Leaky ReLU parameters are used in generators and discriminators. On the other hand, a
                                        drawback of the LSGANJ(D)      is (θ
                                                                           that
                                                                             (G) it (D)
                                                                                ,θ results    in less [log(1
                                                                                        ) = Eµ~pµ(µ)    sample−variety
                                                                                                                  D(G(µ)))]due to excessive penalties
                                                                                                                                                    (6)
                                        for outliers.
                                              The  cost function
                                              According             is readily
                                                           to Goodfellow       et saturated,
                                                                                    al. [32], if D soand
                                                                                                       GANs   still sufficient
                                                                                                          G have     struggle with  the training
                                                                                                                               capacity,          pro-
                                                                                                                                         the min–max
                                        cess’s
                                         game non-convergence.
                                                has a global optimum  The “missing
                                                                             for pg (ϕ)p    modes
                                                                                             data (ϕd problems”
                                                                                                       ) (where porg is“modes   collapse”
                                                                                                                         a probability     that GANs
                                                                                                                                       distribution  of
                                        experience
                                         the producedare output
                                                          extremely     severe
                                                                   ϕ when      µ~pand     result
                                                                                      µ (µ)).  Thein following
                                                                                                      a dearth ofcharacteristics
                                                                                                                    variety and generalization.   The
                                                                                                                                   describe the ideal
                                        GAN    technique
                                         discriminator   forhas   J(G) (G, D);
                                                              therecently     been    improved
                                                                                 Equation            to stabilizethe
                                                                                               (7) represents      training
                                                                                                                       steps: and raise the caliber of

                                                                                                Pdata(ϕd)
                                                                               D∗ (ϕd) =                                                           (7)
                                                                                            Pdata(ϕd+Pg (ϕ))

                                               The calculation of min–max in (3) can be represented in Equation (8) as:
   Appl. Sci. 2023, 13, 8816                                                                                                                          12 of 26


Appl. Sci. 2023, 13, x FOR PEER REVIEW                                                                                                          14 of 27

                                                                   "                               #
                                  (G)
                                                                               Pdata(ϕd)                                      Pg(ϕ)
                          maxD J Firstly,  = Eϕd∼Pdata
                                  (G, D) LSGANs          will       log
                                                           (ϕdpenalize        samples       even     + Eϕ∼ pthey
                                                                                                     though    g [log are properly classified,
                                                                                                                                          ]        in con- (8)
                                                                 )        Pdata(ϕd+Pg (ϕ))                              Pdata(ϕd+Pg (ϕ))
                                 trast to GANs which rarely lose data for samples that fall on the right side. The generated
                                 samples Thewilldiscriminator
                                                   travel in the direction
                                                                        loses theof      the decision
                                                                                      ability              boundary
                                                                                                 to differentiate         due tothe
                                                                                                                       between     theactual
                                                                                                                                       penalization.
                                                                                                                                              dataset Sec-
                                                                                                                                                       ϕd and
                                 ondly,   penalizing      samples        that   are  far  from    1 the decision limit can cause the generator to
                                     the generated dataset ϕ when D*(ϕd) = 2 , which allows the generator to use any random
                                 update    with
                                     dataset    µ more     gradients,
                                                   to synthesize        thesolving
                                                                              generated theoutputs
                                                                                               issue ofϕ.  vanishing gradients. LSGANs can per-
                                 form more The generator’s and discriminator’s parameters θ[47].
                                                consistently        as a  result    of the   learning     process      (G) and θ(D) can both be optimized
                                       Information
                                     using               asymmetry,
                                              gradient-based                 or the fact that there are numerous classes in the input but
                                                                      methods.
                                 only oneDue  classtointheir
                                                         the output,        is anotherfor
                                                               poor suitability            important       factor in mode
                                                                                                storing positional        data,collapse.
                                                                                                                                 DCGANs     Therefore,  the
                                                                                                                                              do not include
                                 labels  of  the  inputs,    x  ,  are  used     in G   and    D   to  conduct     classification
                                     linear layers or pooling layers. Instead, convolutional networks make up the networks
                                                               c                                                                    when    we work   with
                                 a conditional
                                     used by DCGANs.version ofThe    theother
                                                                           LSGAN.       In our of
                                                                                  advantage        investigation,
                                                                                                       a DCGAN isthere   that,were
                                                                                                                               whentwo thediﬀerent   types
                                                                                                                                            input data’s  layer
                                 of samples:     safe  samples        and    unsafe    samples.       One-hot     encoding
                                     distribution is biased, it employs batch normalization to correct the mean and variance.  was   used  to binarize  the
                                 groups.   For instance,
                                     The network        keepsthe      securethe
                                                                   stacking      ones   had labels [0,layers
                                                                                     convolutional           1], a until
                                                                                                                    two-dimensional
                                                                                                                           reaching the vector,
                                                                                                                                          shape 32and× the
                                                                                                                                                        32 × 3
                                 unsafe
                                     withones    had labels
                                            the final    transposed[1, 0]. convolutional
                                                                            The one-hot labels    layer,xcaswere
                                                                                                             shown  added    to the9.
                                                                                                                        in Figure    end of noisy signals
                                 z as the input of G, (z, xc), represented as the vector of conditional LSGANs.
                                     3.3.2.  Network
                                       One-hot      labelsStructure
                                                            xc will beofused   the LSGAN
                                                                                     as the input of D, also known as the vector of (x, xc), if
                                 they are Another
                                            added toGAN   the end      of  reference
                                                                   variation used for     signals     x. The
                                                                                              this work     is main    function becomes:
                                                                                                               the least-squares      GAN (LSGAN), which
                                     can be seen in Figure 10. The LSGAN has some benefits over other GANs: (a) the LSGAN
                                           minDthe
                                     improves       LLSGAN  (D)=
                                                        initial    lossEfunction
                                                                          xox ~Pdata(     oxc)[(D(x,
                                                                                      inxthe    GAN by   xc)substituting
                                                                                                              − 1)2]+ the least-squares loss function
                                                                                                                                                       (16)
                                           Ez~Pz(z)~Pdata(
                                     for the                 xoxc)[(D(G(z,xloss
                                                original cross-entropy              c),xcfunction.
                                                                                           ) +1)2] This technique fixes significant traditional
                                     GAN issues; and (b) the LSGAN increases the convergence speed and the training process
                                     stability and results minG LinLSGANgreater
                                                                             (D)=image         clarity. Similar
                                                                                       Ez~Pz(z)0xc~Pdata(x0xc)        to conventional
                                                                                                                   [(D(G(z,    xc),xc))2] GANs, ReLU   (17)and
                                     Leaky ReLU parameters are used in generators and discriminators. On the other hand, a
                                     drawback of the LSGAN is that it results in less sample variety due to excessive penalties
                                     for outliers.




                                                         (a)                                        (b)
                                         Figure 10. Architecture of the LSGAN. (a) The generator of the LSGAN. (b) The discriminator of
                                     Figure 10. Architecture of the LSGAN. (a) The generator of the LSGAN. (b) The discriminator
                                         the LSGAN.
                                     of the LSGAN.
                                               The cost function is readily saturated, so GANs still struggle with the training pro-
                                           It cannon-convergence.
                                         cess’s    be challenging toThe update   the generator
                                                                            “missing            when the or
                                                                                      modes problems”       typical
                                                                                                               “modesGAN   goal functions
                                                                                                                        collapse”  that GANs
                                     are experience
                                          reduced because      this  can lead  to gradient-loss  issues.  The   LSGAN    gets  around thisThe
                                                       are extremely severe and result in a dearth of variety and generalization.
                                     problem
                                         GAN by     penalizing
                                                 technique    hassamples
                                                                    recentlybased
                                                                             been on  how close
                                                                                    improved   to they  are totraining
                                                                                                   stabilize    the decision  limit,the
                                                                                                                        and raise    which
                                                                                                                                         caliber
                                     causes   thegenerated
                                         of the    generatorsamples.
                                                                to update   with
                                                                          For     more gradients.
                                                                              instance, the sigmoid  Additionally,
                                                                                                       cross-entropy  theoretical
                                                                                                                        loss usedresearch
                                                                                                                                    in training
                                     shows    thatthe
                                         caused    thegradients
                                                        training instability   of standard
                                                                   in the traditional      GANs
                                                                                      method        is caused
                                                                                              to vanish.         by the propensity
                                                                                                           The least-squares   GAN of    the
                                                                                                                                      (LSGAN)
                                     objective  function   to seek   modes,  whereas  the LSGAN     exhibits less  mode-seeking   activity.
                                         method [54] replaces the cross-entropy loss by the least-squares function with binary coding
                                         to resolve this.
Appl. Sci. 2023, 13, 8816                                                                                                        13 of 26




                                 In order to ensure that the generated and real images converge during training, the
                            discriminator’s target values for the real and generated images are represented by labels a
                            and b, respectively. The generator’s target value for the generated images is represented
                            by label c. To achieve this convergence, it is important to select appropriate values for a,
                            b, and c. An extra term is introduced into the generator equation to accomplish this, and
                            since this term is independent of G, the optimal point for the equation remains the same.
                                 The cost function in the LSGAN is given in Equation (9) as:

                                                             1             h           i 1         h               i
                                  minD LLSGAN (D) =            Ex∼Pdata (x) (D(x) − b)2 + Ez∼Pz (z) (D(G(z)) − a)2                   (9)
                                                             2                           2
                                 The discriminator’s cost function, which is defined by F(D) in Equation (10), can also
                            be transformed into Equation (11).

                                                                 1
                                                                     Z
                                       minD LLSGAN (D) =                     Pdata (x)(D(x) − b)2 + Pg (x)(D(x) − a)2 dx            (10)
                                                                 2       x


                                                       1
                                                 F(D) =  P    (x)(D(x) − b)2 + Pg (x)(D(x) − a)2                    (11)
                                                       2 data
                                When the generator is certain and fixed, it is possible to determine the formula for the
                            optimal discriminator as Equation (11) by minimizing the function in Equation (12).

                                                                                  bPdata + (x)aPg (x)
                                                                     D∗ (x) =                                                       (12)
                                                                                   Pdata (x) + Pg (x)

                                 Then, by substituting D*(x), the best generator in terms of optimization can be
                            achieved.
                                                                                 h             i
                                  2L(G) = Ex∼pdata [(D∗ (x) − c)2 ] + Ez∼pz (D∗ (G(z)) − c)2 = Ex∼pdata
                                                 2                        2
                                  [ D∗ (x) − c ] + Ex∼pg [D∗ (x) − c ] =
                                                                                       !2
                                  Z                      (b − c)Pdata (x)(a − c)pg (x)                       (13)
                                      (P(data(x)+pg (x))                                  dx =
                                    x                         Pdata (x) + Pg (x)
                                  Z (b − c)(P
                                                 data (x)pg (x)(b − c)pg (x)
                                                                                     )2dx
                                   x          Pdata (x) + pg (x)

                                In reality, there are several sets of viable parameterization options available for LS-
                            GANs. A 0–1 binary coding scheme, for instance, can be used to distinguish between
                            generated samples and actual samples when a = 0, b = 1, and c = 1.
                                In the case where b = 1, a = 1, and c = 0, L (G) is changed to Equation (14):
                                                                                     2
                                                         (2 pg (x) − Pdata (x)pg (x) )
                                                 Z
                                       2L(G) =                                              dx = X2Pearson (Pdata + Pg ||2pg )      (14)
                                                     x        Pdata (x) + pg (x)

                                  The cost function of the LSGAN in this situation aims to minimize the Pearson dif-
                            ference between pg +pdata and 2pg [54]. In this study, the latter criterion is used. Pearson
                            divergence, as well as KL divergence and JS divergence, pertain to the F-divergence family.
                            In statistics, a branch of functions known as F divergence is used to compare two probability
                            density functions—in this instance, the probability density for the generated data (pg (x))
                            and the probability density for the real data (Pdata (x)). The following is the basic formula
                            for an F-divergence Df :
                                                                                                 !
                                                                                       Pdata (x)
                                                                            Z
                                                    Df (Pg (x)||Pdata (x)) = pg (x)f               dx                 (15)
                                                                                        pg (x)
Appl. Sci. 2023, 13, 8816                                                                                            14 of 26




                                  F divergence corresponds to KL divergence when f(t) = t logt. F divergence represents
                            X2Pearsan divergence when f(t) = (t1)2 . This change has two advantages that can be seen.
                            Firstly, LSGANs will penalize samples even though they are properly classified, in contrast
                            to GANs which rarely lose data for samples that fall on the right side. The generated
                            samples will travel in the direction of the decision boundary due to the penalization.
                            Secondly, penalizing samples that are far from the decision limit can cause the generator
                            to update with more gradients, solving the issue of vanishing gradients. LSGANs can
                            perform more consistently as a result of the learning process [47].
                                  Information asymmetry, or the fact that there are numerous classes in the input but
                            only one class in the output, is another important factor in mode collapse. Therefore, the
                            labels of the inputs, xc , are used in G and D to conduct classification when we work with
                            a conditional version of the LSGAN. In our investigation, there were two different types
                            of samples: safe samples and unsafe samples. One-hot encoding was used to binarize the
                            groups. For instance, the secure ones had labels [0, 1], a two-dimensional vector, and the
                            unsafe ones had labels [1, 0]. The one-hot labels xc were added to the end of noisy signals z
                            as the input of G, (z, xc ), represented as the vector of conditional LSGANs.
                                  One-hot labels xc will be used as the input of D, also known as the vector of (x, xc ), if
                            they are added to the end of reference signals x. The main function becomes:
                                                                                        h                i
                                             minD LLSGAN (D) = 21 Exo xc ∼Pdata (xo xc ) (D(x, xc ) − 1)2 + 12
                                                                    h                         i                       (16)
                                             Ez∼Pz(z)∼Pdata (xo xc ) (D(G(z, xc ), xc ) + 1)2

                                                               1                         h                     i
                                          minG LLSGAN (D) =      Ez∼Pz(z)0xc∼Pdata (x0xc) (D(G(z, xc ), xc ))2     (17)
                                                               2
                                 It can be challenging to update the generator when the typical GAN goal functions are
                            reduced because this can lead to gradient-loss issues. The LSGAN gets around this problem
                            by penalizing samples based on how close they are to the decision limit, which causes the
                            generator to update with more gradients. Additionally, theoretical research shows that the
                            training instability of standard GANs is caused by the propensity of the objective function
                            to seek modes, whereas the LSGAN exhibits less mode-seeking activity.

                            3.4. Symbol Spotting Based on YOLO V5
                                  After merging the images of the single-line diagrams, an object detection technique
                            based on the YOLO model was used in this study to detect and classify the one-line
                            components. The process of YOLO V5, which is frequently used for object detection
                            in surveillance videos, single-line images, face recognition, and other fields, is one of
                            finding and classifying one or more targeted objects in images, as well as determining their
                            classes and positions. The single-line symbol detection task was applied in this study, with
                            satisfying results obtained using the YOLO V5 object recognition algorithm.
                                  The YOLO approach was favored for two key reasons. Firstly, it has a simple ar-
                            chitecture that enables the prediction of multiple bounding boxes and class probabilities
                            simultaneously using a single convolutional neural network. Secondly, YOLO is known for
                            its high speed in comparison with other object detection techniques, which is essential for
                            its practical use in testing SLDs that contain an average of 50 engineering symbols.

                            The Structure of the YOLO V5 Network
                                 In this study, we used YOLO V5, one of the recent iterations of the YOLO algorithm.
                            YOLO V5 is an efficient and quick object detection algorithm that finds items instantly.
                            Since symbols present in SLDs are very similar to each other, a robust detection speed is
                            also necessary. YOLO V5 is capable of fulfilling this criterion. The deep-learning framework
                            PyTorch, which has outstanding detection performance and has made training and testing
                            for specialized datasets easier, was used to create the algorithm. The backbone, neck, and
                            head are the three components that makeup YOLO V5 [55].
Appl. Sci. 2023, 13, 8816                                                                                                   15 of 26




                                         The factors that led us to pick YOLO V5 as the detection model for this study are its
                                   simplicity and clarity. To begin with, YOLO V5 merges Darknet with the cross-stage partial
                                   network (CSPNet) [43] to produce CSPDarknet, which serves as the network’s core [56,57].
                                   By including gradient changes in the feature map, reducing model parameters and FLOPS
                                   (floating-point operations per second), and ensuring inference speed and accuracy while
                                   also reducing model size, the CSPNet addresses the issue of recurrent gradient information
                                   in large-scale backbones. Speed and accuracy are crucial when detecting sperm cells, and
                                   the size of the model affects how well these factors can be inferred using edge devices
                                   with restricted resources. Second, to enhance information flow, YOLO V5 uses a path
                                   aggregation network (PANet) [15] as its neck. To enhance low-level feature propagation,
                                   the PANet employs a novel feature pyramid network (FPN) topology with an improved
                                   bottom-up methodology. In addition, adaptive feature sharing, which links the feature
                                   grid to all feature levels, makes sure that the subsequent sub-network receives useful
                                   information from each feature level. Additionally, the PANet enhances accurate localization
                                   signals at lower layers, which greatly increases the accuracy of the object’s location. To
                                   provide multi-scale prediction, the YOLO layer, the head of YOLO V5, produces three
                                   different sizes of feature maps. The YOLO model can now manage small, medium, and
                                   large objects thanks to this.
                                         The CSPNet serves as the framework. Fewer hyper-parameters and FLOPS are pro-
                                   duced as a consequence of the CSPNet’s reduction in model complexity. Due to the
                                   complexity of the neural networks, it also addresses vanishing and exploding gradient
                                   problems. These developments increase the efficiency and precision of object recognition
                                   inference. Multiple convolutional layers, three convolutions in four CSP obstacles, and spa-
                                   tial pyramid sharing are all features of the CSPNet. The CSPNet is in charge of extracting
                                   features from an input picture and pooling and convolving those features together to create
                                   a feature map. As a result, in YOLO V5, the backbone serves as a feature generator.
                                         The neck, or central portion of YOLO V5, is also referred to as the PANet. To execute
Appl. Sci. 2023, 13, x FOR PEER REVIEW
                                   feature fusions, the PANet collects all the features extracted from the backbone, saves16them,
                                                                                                                               of 27
                                   and transfers these features to the deep layers. These feature fusions are sent to the head
                                   so that the output layer, which will perform the actual object recognition, is aware of the
                                   high-level
                                         YOLOfeatures.
                                                 V5’s head is in charge of object recognition. The target object is surrounded
                                         YOLO   V5’s
                                    by bounding boxes head  is ainclass
                                                          and       charge of objectscore,
                                                                        probability  recognition. The target1 object
                                                                                           which comprises           is surrounded
                                                                                                              × 1 convolutions  that
                                   by  bounding   boxes  and  a  class probability score, which comprises 1  × 1 convolutions
                                    predict the class of an object. The general architecture of YOLO V5 is depicted in Figure  that
                                   predict
                                    11.    the class of an object. The general architecture of YOLO V5 is depicted in Figure 11.




                                Figure11.
                                Figure 11. The
                                           The YOLO
                                               YOLO V5
                                                    V5 network.
                                                       network.

                                      Using Equation (18), the bounding box’s position is determined:

                                                                        = P x,y ∗                                              (18)
                                                                    U               IoU

                                      Equation (18) shows that x and y are the yth bounding rectangle of the xth grid. The
Appl. Sci. 2023, 13, 8816                                                                                                                                            16 of 26




                                           Using Equation (18), the bounding box’s position is determined:
                                                                                  y
                                                                               Ux = Px,y ∗ IoUGroun  Truth
                                                                                              Predicted                                                                  (18)

                                           Equation (18) shows that x and y are the yth bounding rectangle of the xth grid. The
                                     probability value for the xth grid’s yth bounding box is U. When there is a subject in the
                                     yth bounding box, Px,y equals 1; otherwise, it equals 0. The intersection over union (IoU)
                                     between the expected class and the ground truth is known as the IoUground truth . More
                                     precise predicted bounding boxes are associated with higher IoUs.
                                           The bounding box, categorization, and confidence loss functions are combined to form
                                     the YOLO V5 loss function. The total loss function of YOLO V5 is represented by Equation
                                     (19) [58]:
                                                    lossYOLOv5 = lossbounding box + lossclassification + lossconfidence     (19)
                                           loss bounding box is calculated using Equation (20):

                                                                                     2                       2                       2                       2 
                                   2
                                                                                                                                                
                                             g                                     c                        c                        c                        c
   lossbounding box =       λif Σba=0 Σdc=0 Ea,c , hg (2 − ka kna )        xa − x0 a        +       ya − y0 a        +       wa − w0 a        +       ha − h0 a          (20)

                                           Equation (20) uses h’ and w’ to represent the target object’s breadth and height, while
                                     xa and ya stand for the target object’s coordinates in an image. Finally, the indicator function
                                     (λif) displays whether the target item is contained within the bounding box.
                                           Equation (21) represents the calculation of lossclassification :
                                                                                                2                g
                                                  lossclassification = λclassification Σbc=0 Σdc=0 Ea,c ΣCЄc1 La (c) log (LLa (c))                                       (21)

                                           loss confidence is calculated using Equation (22):

                                                    2                                                      2
                   lossconfidence = λconfidence Σbc=0 Σdc=0 EConfidence
                                                             a,c        (ci − cl )2 + λg Σbc=0 Σdc=0 EConfidence
                                                                                                      a,c        (ci − cl )2                                             (22)

                                          The category loss coefficient, λ classification loss λ coefficient, class, and confidence
                                     score are all denoted in Equations (21) and (22) by the symbol confidence and classification,
                                     respectively.

                                     4. Experiments and Results
                                          In this section, the experimentation environment and procedure are discussed in
                                     detail. First, we present the experiments with various GANs and the data generated by the
                                     GANs. Second, we present the experiments conducted after having trained YOLO V5 on
                                     the original and augmented datasets.

                                     4.1. Data Generation Results
                                     4.1.1. Construction of the SLD Image Dataset
                                          The hyper-parameter was set to 0.5, the batch size was 32, and the layer norm was used
                                     as the normalization technique. The training iterations were fixed to 2000. Additionally, the
                                     entry and output image sizes were 64 × 64 and 32 × 32, respectively. Using the DCGAN
                                     and LSGAN, artificial single-line pictures of sizes (a) 32 × 32 and (b) 64 × 64 were produced
                                     and are displayed in Figure 12. Since it is difficult to distinguish between genuine and
                                     fake photos, the images were also fairly legitimate. The images appeared to be very clear,
                                     authentic, and lifelike. To enhance the performance of the symbol recognition system, the
                                     synthetic pictures produced using various GAN methods were to be combined with the
                                     real pictures and used for training.
                                   ally, the entry and output image sizes were 64 × 64 and 32 × 32, respectively. Using the
                                   DCGAN and LSGAN, artificial single-line pictures of sizes (a) 32 × 32 and (b) 64 × 64 were
                                   produced and are displayed in Figure 12. Since it is diﬃcult to distinguish between genu-
                                   ine and fake photos, the images were also fairly legitimate. The images appeared to be
                                   very clear, authentic, and lifelike. To enhance the performance of the symbol recognition
 Appl. Sci. 2023, 13, 8816                                                                                               17 of 26
                                   system, the synthetic pictures produced using various GAN methods were to be combined
                                   with the real pictures and used for training.




Appl. Sci. 2023, 13, x FOR PEER REVIEW                                                                                       18 of 27


                                                                   (a)




                                                                  (b)
                                   Figure 12. (a) DCGAN-generated images of sizes 32 × 32 and 64 × 64. (b) LSGAN-generated images
                                  Figure 12. (a) DCGAN-generated images of sizes 32 × 32 and 64 × 64. (b) LSGAN-generated images
                                  ofofsizes  32××
                                       sizes32  3232 and
                                                   and 6464 × 64.
                                                          × 64.
                                   4.1.2. SLD Dataset Distribution
                                  4.1.2. SLD Dataset Distribution
                                         The augmented SLD dataset for the symbol detection model consists of a total of
                                   4600The  augmented
                                         images          SLD samples,
                                                 with 12,700   dataset for the symbol
                                                                        which          detection model
                                                                                is approximately          consists
                                                                                                   6.5 times       of aoftotal
                                                                                                              the ize      the of 4600
                                                                                                                               original
                                  images
                                   dataset.with
                                            This12,700
                                                 datasetsamples,
                                                          includeswhich   is approximately
                                                                   690 delta,  560 motor, 6896.5 times the
                                                                                              generator,    size
                                                                                                          and    ofair
                                                                                                               798  thecircuit
                                                                                                                         original  da-
                                                                                                                                breaker
                                  taset. This dataset includes  690 delta,  560 motor, 689 generator,   and  798 air circuit
                                   images. The real and synthetic images were divided into three parts in the augmented       breaker
                                  images. The real and synthetic images were divided into three parts in the augmented
                                  dataset in a ratio of 6:2:2, which was also used to split the dataset for training, validation,
                                  and testing purposes. Figure 13 displays the distribution percentage of the samples.
                                        After data enhancement, a total of 4000 images were generated using the DCGAN
                                  and LSGAN. These images consisted of 610 samples of circuit breakers, 468 samples of
Appl. Sci. 2023, 13, 8816                                                                                                                          18 of 26




                                           dataset in a ratio of 6:2:2, which was also used to split the dataset
          Appl. Sci. 2023, 13, x FOR PEER REVIEW
                                                                                                                  for training, validation,
                                                                                                            19 of 27
                                           and testing purposes. Figure 13 displays the distribution percentage of the samples.


                                                                    Dataset Sample Distribution
                                              6000

                                              5000

                                             4000
        Appl. Sci. 2023, 13, x FOR PEER REVIEW                                                                                          19 of 27

                                              3000

                                              2000
                                                                     Dataset Sample Distribution
                                              1000
                                              6000
                                                       0
                                              5000
                                                            Training Set            Validation Set               Test Set

                                              4000         Original Images       Generated Images            Total Images

                                              3000
                                            Figure 13. Proportions of symbol instances in the training, validation, and testing sets.
                                           Figure 13. Proportions of symbol instances in the training, validation, and testing sets.
                                              2000
                                                  After data enhancement,            a total of 4000 images were generated using the DCGAN
                                                                       Sample Distribution
                                              1000
                                           and
                                             900 LSGAN. These images consisted of 610 samples of circuit breakers, 468 samples of
                                             800
                                           switches,    600 samples of voltmeters, 687 instances of inductance, and 569 samples of CTs.
                                             700 0
                                             600 symbol
                                           Each              occurred
                                                          Training  Set in a well-balanced
                                                                                 Validation Set        manner      inSet
                                                                                                                Test  the new dataset, and the generated
                                             500
                                           samples
                                             400       were plentiful for training the model and achieving satisfactory results. This was
                                             300        Original Images        Generated Images            Total Images
                                           demonstrated
                                             200
                                                               by the distribution proportion of original to newly produced samples for
                                             100
                                           different   symbol types, as shown in Figure 14.
                                           Figure 13. Proportions of symbol instances in the training, validation, and testing sets.
                                                   0


                                                                             Sample Distribution
                                              900
                                              800
                                              700
                                              600 14. Distribution ratios of original and synthetic samples.
                                            Figure
                                              500
                                              400Evaluation of YOLO V5 Training
                                            4.2.
                                              300
                                            4.2.1.
                                              200 Computer Hardware Configuration
                                              100Deep-learning networks require robust hardware support. In our case, we utilized a
                                                 0
                                            Linux-based   system with CUDA 11.1, Python 3.8, and Pytorch 1.8.0. The hardware setup
                                            included an Nvidia A40 GPU with 48 GB of memory. This powerful configuration enabled
                                            us to eﬃciently perform all the training and generation operations.

                                            4.2.2. Evolution of Hyper-Parameters
                                                 In our study, we enhanced the YOLO V5 model during the training phase by incor-
                                           porating specific learning rates. We employed learning rates of 0.001 for analysis, 0.1 for
                                           Figure  14. Distribution
                                           each epoch,        0.9 forratios of original and synthetic samples.we employed early stopping
                                           Figure    14. and
                                                         Distribution the moment.
                                                                            ratios ofToriginal
                                                                                         mitigate overfitting,
                                                                                                  and  synthetic samples.
                                           and cross-validation techniques. During the experiment, we utilized five-fold cross-vali-
                                           4.2. Evaluation
                                           dation  to obtainofout-of-sample
                                                               YOLO V5 Training forecast errors. The early stopping rules helped us deter-
                                           4.2.  Evaluation      of YOLO V5         Training
                                           mine the
                                           4.2.1.     optimal Hardware
                                                  Computer     number of iterations     before the algorithm became overfitted.
                                                                             Configuration
                                           4.2.1. Computer Hardware Configuration
                                                Deep-learning networks require robust hardware support. In our case, we utilized a
                                                 Deep-learning
                                           Linux-based  system withnetworks
                                                                    CUDA 11.1,require      robust
                                                                                  Python 3.8,       hardware
                                                                                              and Pytorch  1.8.0.support.   In our
                                                                                                                  The hardware  setupcase, we utilized a
                                           Linux-based system with CUDA 11.1, Python 3.8, and Pytorch 1.8.0. The hardware setup
                                           included an Nvidia A40 GPU    with 48 GB  of memory.  This powerful  configuration enabled
                                           us to eﬃciently
                                           included        perform A40
                                                      an Nvidia    all theGPU
                                                                           training and48
                                                                                 with    generation operations.This powerful configuration enabled
                                                                                           GB of memory.
                                           us  to efficiently perform all the training and generation operations.
                                           4.2.2. Evolution of Hyper-Parameters
                                                   In our study, we enhanced the YOLO V5 model during the training phase by incor-
                                           4.2.2. Evolution of Hyper-Parameters
                                           porating specific learning rates. We employed learning rates of 0.001 for analysis, 0.1 for
                                                 In ourand
                                           each epoch,   study,
                                                            0.9 forwe
                                                                    theenhanced
                                                                       moment. Tothe   YOLO
                                                                                   mitigate     V5 model
                                                                                            overfitting,      during the
                                                                                                         we employed    earlytraining
                                                                                                                              stopping phase by incorpo-
                                           and cross-validation
                                           rating                techniques.
                                                   specific learning         During
                                                                        rates.      the experiment,
                                                                               We employed            we utilized
                                                                                                 learning    ratesfive-fold
                                                                                                                    of 0.001 cross-vali-
                                                                                                                                for analysis, 0.1 for each
                                           dation to obtain out-of-sample forecast errors. The early stopping rules helped us deter-
                                           epoch, and 0.9 for the moment. To mitigate overfitting, we employed early stopping and
                                           mine the optimal number of iterations before the algorithm became overfitted.
                                           cross-validation techniques. During the experiment, we utilized five-fold cross-validation
Appl. Sci. 2023, 13, 8816                                                                                                                      19 of 26


                      Appl. Sci. 2023, 13, x FOR PEER REVIEW                                                                                                    20
                                     to obtain out-of-sample forecast errors. The early stopping rules helped us determine the
                                     optimal number of iterations before the algorithm became overfitted.
                                          This experimentThis    used   the following
                                                                      experiment      usedparameters:
                                                                                             the following   max    batches = max
                                                                                                                parameters:      6000,batches
                                                                                                                                        policy == 6000,
                                                                                                                                                   steps,policy =
                                     steps = 6300, 7500,     scales    =  0.1, 0.1,  momentum         =  0.958,  decay   =  0.0004,
                                                       steps = 6300, 7500, scales = 0.1, 0.1, momentum = 0.958, decay = 0.0004, and   and   mosaic    = 1.
                                                                                                                                                         mosaic = 1
                                     The largest batches     required     by   m-class   object  detectors     are  typically  2000   m.   The
                                                       largest batches required by m-class object detectors are typically 2000 m. The training training
                                     procedure in thecedure
                                                         experimentin theended      after 8000
                                                                            experiment      endedrounds      8000 ×
                                                                                                      after (2000      4 classes).
                                                                                                                    rounds    (2000Additionally,
                                                                                                                                      × 4 classes). the
                                                                                                                                                      Additionall
                                     training procedure       made
                                                       training        use of the
                                                                     procedure        scaleuse
                                                                                    made     (0.1,
                                                                                                of 0.1)
                                                                                                     the and
                                                                                                           scalethe   present
                                                                                                                  (0.1, 0.1) anditeration   number
                                                                                                                                    the present         of
                                                                                                                                                   iteration  numb
                                     0.001 batches. The    learning-rate       number    was   updated      regularly   and  was    calculated
                                                       0.001 batches. The learning-rate number was updated regularly and was calculated         using    a
                                     learning-rate scale    between [0] scale
                                                       a learning-rate        and [1]   = 0.00001.
                                                                                    between    [0] and [1] = 0.00001.
                                          The technique used         in this   paper
                                                               The technique used in   to  optimize
                                                                                             this paperthetohyper-parameters         was based on the
                                                                                                               optimize the hyper-parameters           was based o
                                     genetic algorithm    (GA)      offered    by  YOLO     V5.  The   hyper-parameters
                                                       genetic algorithm (GA) oﬀered by YOLO V5. The hyper-parameters           that  were trainedthatonwere train
                                     the COCO dataset  the were
                                                             COCO    the  default
                                                                        dataset      parameters,
                                                                                   were   the default and   they were and
                                                                                                          parameters,     programmed
                                                                                                                               they were to    develop to de
                                                                                                                                             programmed
                                     once every 50 training
                                                       once everyepochs 50 for  a totalepochs
                                                                            training     of 100 for
                                                                                                 evolutions.
                                                                                                      a total ofAs   a result,
                                                                                                                   100          Figure
                                                                                                                        evolutions.   As15’s  depiction
                                                                                                                                           a result,  Figure 15’s d
                                     of the evolutiontionprocess
                                                              of the demonstrates
                                                                       evolution processthat the    ideal collection
                                                                                               demonstrates              of hyper-parameters
                                                                                                                   that the  ideal collection of was  hyper-param
                                     attained in the 93rd
                                                       waspass.      Withinyellow
                                                              attained               denoting
                                                                              the 93rd            a higher
                                                                                         pass. With     yellowfrequency,
                                                                                                                 denotingthe    y-axis depicts
                                                                                                                             a higher            fitness,
                                                                                                                                        frequency,     the y-axis d
                                     the x-axis the values      of  the  hyper-parameters,         and   the   different  colors   the
                                                       fitness, the x-axis the values of the hyper-parameters, and the diﬀerent colors  frequencies     of the fre
                                     the results. Thecies
                                                        finalofhyper-parameter          values    used    for  training   were   initial  learning
                                                                 the results. The final hyper-parameter values used for training were initial lea    rate
                                     lr0 = 0.01199, final
                                                       ratelearning      rate lrffinal
                                                              lr0 = 0.01199,       = 0.05053,
                                                                                       learning andrateSGDmomentum
                                                                                                         lrf = 0.05053, and  = SGDmomentum
                                                                                                                               0.90091.              = 0.90091.




                                                      Figure
                                     Figure 15. Evolution    15. Evolution
                                                          process          process of the hyper-parameter
                                                                  of the hyper-parameter   values.        values.
Appl.Appl.
      Sci. 2023,
      Appl.Sci.    13, 8816
             Sci.2023,
                   2023,13,
                         13,xxxxFOR FORPEER
                                        PEERREVIEW
                                              REVIEW                                                                                                                                                                 20 of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        21 26ofof2727
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          21
      Appl.
     Appl.
     Appl.   Sci.
            Sci.
            Sci.  2023,
                 2023,
                  2023,  13,
                        13,
                        13,        FOR
                                  FOR   PEER
                                       PEER  REVIEW
                                            REVIEW                                                                                                                                                                       21
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        21    of 27
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             of   27
      Appl.
      Appl.
     Appl.
      Appl.
     Appl.
             Sci.
             Sci.
            Sci.
             Sci.
            Sci.
                  2023,
                  2023,
                 2023,
                  2023,
                 2023,
                         13,
                         13,
                        13,
                         13,
                        13,  xxxxx
                                 x
                                   FOR
                                   FOR
                                   FOR
                                  FOR
                                   FOR
                                  FOR
                                       PEER
                                        PEER
                                        PEER
                                       PEER
                                        PEER
                                       PEER
                                             REVIEW
                                             REVIEW
                                             REVIEW
                                            REVIEW
                                             REVIEW
                                            REVIEW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         21
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         21
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         21
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        21
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         21
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        21
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 27
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  27
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  27
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 27
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  27
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 27
     Appl. Sci.
     Appl.  Sci. 2023,
                  2023, 13,
                         13, xx FORFOR PEER
                                       PEER REVIEW
                                             REVIEW                                                                                                                                                                      21 of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        21    of 27
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  27


                                                 SinceSincethe the
                                                        Since     model
                                                                   themodelmodelalters    alters as the
                                                                                             alters       as    hyper-parameters
                                                                                                            asthe thehyper-parameters
                                                                                                                           hyper-parameters              change,change,
                                                                                                                                                                   change, the the deep
                                                                                                                                                                                     thedeep        neural
                                                                                                                                                                                                  deep      neural
                                                                                                                                                                                                             neuralnetwork’s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          network’s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            network’s
                                                       Since
                                                      Since
                                                      Since
                                                       Since       the
                                                                  the
                                                                  the
                                                                   the     model
                                                                          model
                                                                          model
                                                                           model             alters
                                                                                           alters
                                                                                           alters
                                                                                             alters         as
                                                                                                           as
                                                                                                           as
                                                                                                            as    the
                                                                                                                 the
                                                                                                                 the
                                                                                                                  the      hyper-parameters
                                                                                                                          hyper-parameters
                                                                                                                          hyper-parameters
                                                                                                                           hyper-parameters                       change,
                                                                                                                                                                 change,
                                                                                                                                                                 change,
                                                                                                                                                                  change,           the
                                                                                                                                                                                   the
                                                                                                                                                                                   the
                                                                                                                                                                                    the          deep
                                                                                                                                                                                                 deep
                                                                                                                                                                                                 deep
                                                                                                                                                                                                 deep        neural
                                                                                                                                                                                                            neural
                                                                                                                                                                                                            neural
                                                                                                                                                                                                             neural        network’s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          network’s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          network’s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           network’s
                                                      Since
                                         hyper-parameters
                                                       Since the
                                                      Since
                                             hyper-parameters    the      model
                                                                           are
                                                                           model
                                                                   the model       the
                                                                                  are     alters
                                                                                               external
                                                                                             alters
                                                                                           alters
                                                                                             the          as
                                                                                                           as
                                                                                                       external the
                                                                                                            as the       hyper-parameters
                                                                                                                    variables
                                                                                                                           hyper-parameters
                                                                                                                  the hyper-parameters
                                                                                                                           variables     that      must
                                                                                                                                                that      must bechange,
                                                                                                                                                                       manually
                                                                                                                                                                  change,
                                                                                                                                                                 change,be         the
                                                                                                                                                                                    the deep
                                                                                                                                                                                   the
                                                                                                                                                                             manually           deep
                                                                                                                                                                                                  set
                                                                                                                                                                                                 deep    and
                                                                                                                                                                                                        set neural
                                                                                                                                                                                                             neural
                                                                                                                                                                                                            neural
                                                                                                                                                                                                                and       network’s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  constantly
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           network’s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          network’s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         constantly
                                                hyper-parameters
                                                       Since
                                                      Since
                                               hyper-parameters
                                              hyper-parameters
                                              hyper-parameters    the
                                                                  the      model
                                                                          model     are
                                                                                   are
                                                                                  are
                                                                                  are           the
                                                                                            alters
                                                                                           alters
                                                                                               the
                                                                                              the
                                                                                              the        external
                                                                                                           as
                                                                                                           as   the
                                                                                                         external
                                                                                                        external
                                                                                                        external the         variables
                                                                                                                          hyper-parameters
                                                                                                                          hyper-parameters
                                                                                                                             variables
                                                                                                                            variables
                                                                                                                            variables             that
                                                                                                                                                 that
                                                                                                                                                that
                                                                                                                                                that        must
                                                                                                                                                           must
                                                                                                                                                           must
                                                                                                                                                           must   change,
                                                                                                                                                                 change, be
                                                                                                                                                                         be
                                                                                                                                                                        be
                                                                                                                                                                        be     manually
                                                                                                                                                                                    the
                                                                                                                                                                                   the
                                                                                                                                                                               manually
                                                                                                                                                                              manually
                                                                                                                                                                              manually           deep
                                                                                                                                                                                                 deep     set
                                                                                                                                                                                                          set
                                                                                                                                                                                                         set
                                                                                                                                                                                                         set      and
                                                                                                                                                                                                             neural
                                                                                                                                                                                                            neural
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                and        constantly
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           network’s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          network’s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           constantly
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          constantly
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          constantly
                                               hyper-parameters
                                              hyper-parameters
                                         changed       to findfind   the ideal     arecombination.
                                                                                  are          the external
                                                                                              the        external variables  variables that      that must must be       be manually
                                                                                                                                                                               manually set               set andand constantly
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          constantly
                                               hyper-parameters
                                              hyper-parameters
                                                changedto
                                             changed
                                               hyper-parameters
                                              hyper-parameters
                                               changed
                                              changed          to
                                                              to     findthe
                                                                tofind
                                                                    find      the
                                                                              the
                                                                             the   are
                                                                                  are
                                                                                    ideal
                                                                                   are
                                                                                  are  ideal
                                                                                      ideal
                                                                                     ideal     the
                                                                                              the
                                                                                               the
                                                                                              the        external variables
                                                                                                       external
                                                                                                    combination.
                                                                                                      combination.
                                                                                                        external
                                                                                                       external
                                                                                                     combination.
                                                                                                    combination.             variables that
                                                                                                                            variables
                                                                                                                           variables             that must
                                                                                                                                                 that
                                                                                                                                                that       must be
                                                                                                                                                           must
                                                                                                                                                          must           be
                                                                                                                                                                        be     manually set
                                                                                                                                                                         be manually
                                                                                                                                                                               manually
                                                                                                                                                                              manually                    set and
                                                                                                                                                                                                         set
                                                                                                                                                                                                         set     and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                and        constantly
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 and constantly
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          constantly
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          constantly
                                               changedto
                                              changed          tofind
                                                                    findthe   theidealidealcombination.
                                                                                                     combination.
                                               changed
                                              changed
                                               changed
                                              changed          to
                                                              to
                                                               to   find
                                                                   find
                                                                    find      the
                                                                            the       ideal
                                                                                     ideal
                                                                             the ideal               combination.
                                                                                                    combination.
                                                                                      ideal combination.
                                                                                                     combination.
                                         4.2.3.   Resultsto     andfind     the
                                                                         Evaluations
                                             4.2.3.
                                                4.2.3.Results
                                               4.2.3.
                                              4.2.3.      Resultsand
                                                          Results
                                                        Results           andEvaluations
                                                                         and
                                                                        and        Evaluations
                                                                                   Evaluations
                                                                                 Evaluations
                                               4.2.3.
                                              4.2.3.      Resultsand
                                                        Results
                                                 The prediction          and       Evaluations
                                                                                 Evaluations
                                                                              results            of the classification task were classified into four categories
                                               4.2.3.
                                              4.2.3.
                                               4.2.3.
                                              4.2.3.      Results
                                                        Results
                                                         Results
                                                        Results
                                                      The
                                                        The   prediction and
                                                                        and
                                                                         and
                                                                        and
                                                                prediction         Evaluations
                                                                                 Evaluations
                                                                                  Evaluations
                                                                                 Evaluations
                                                                                      results
                                                                                        results           ofofthe the    classification
                                                                                                                           classification            task
                                                                                                                                                       taskwere   were      classified
                                                                                                                                                                              classified             into
                                                                                                                                                                                                        intofour  fourcategories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            categories
                                         based onThe   The
                                                      The
                                                       The      prediction
                                                               prediction
                                                                 relationship
                                                          theprediction
                                                                prediction             results
                                                                                      results
                                                                                       results  between   ofof
                                                                                                           of    the
                                                                                                                the
                                                                                                                 the  the classification
                                                                                                                         classification
                                                                                                                               prediction task
                                                                                                                          classification              task
                                                                                                                                                     task
                                                                                                                                                     output
                                                                                                                                                      task       were
                                                                                                                                                                were
                                                                                                                                                                 were   and  classified
                                                                                                                                                                            classified
                                                                                                                                                                                the ground-truth
                                                                                                                                                                             classified                into
                                                                                                                                                                                                      into
                                                                                                                                                                                                       into      four
                                                                                                                                                                                                                four
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 four      categories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          categories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           value:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           categories
                                             based     The
                                                      Theon     prediction
                                                               prediction
                                                               the     relationship   results
                                                                                        results
                                                                                      results             of
                                                                                                          ofof  the
                                                                                                                 the
                                                                                                                the      classification
                                                                                                                          classification
                                                                                                                         classification                task
                                                                                                                                                     task       were
                                                                                                                                                                 were
                                                                                                                                                                were        classified
                                                                                                                                                                             classified
                                                                                                                                                                            classified                into
                                                                                                                                                                                                       into
                                                                                                                                                                                                      into      four
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 four
                                                                                                                                                                                                                four      categories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           categories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          categories
                                                based
                                               based
                                              based
                                         (a) True
                                               based
                                              based
                                                       The
                                                      The  onprediction
                                                          on
                                                     Positive
                                                         on
                                                           on
                                                           on
                                                                 the(TP);
                                                               prediction
                                                                the
                                                               the
                                                                the
                                                                         relationship
                                                                        relationship
                                                                       relationship
                                                                        relationship    True between
                                                                                       results
                                                                                (b)results             between
                                                                                                           of the
                                                                                                          of
                                                                                                       between
                                                                                                      between
                                                                                                      Negative
                                                                                                       between
                                                                                                                          the
                                                                                                                            theprediction
                                                                                                                 the classification
                                                                                                                          classification
                                                                                                                           the
                                                                                                                          the
                                                                                                                           (TN);
                                                                                                                           the
                                                                                                                                    prediction
                                                                                                                                        (c) Falsetask
                                                                                                                                    prediction
                                                                                                                                   prediction
                                                                                                                                    prediction
                                                                                                                                                         output
                                                                                                                                                      task output
                                                                                                                                                          output
                                                                                                                                                         output
                                                                                                                                                          output were
                                                                                                                                                                were
                                                                                                                                                         Positive        and
                                                                                                                                                                           and    the
                                                                                                                                                                            classified
                                                                                                                                                                          and
                                                                                                                                                                          and
                                                                                                                                                                          and
                                                                                                                                                                                    the
                                                                                                                                                                             classified
                                                                                                                                                                           (FP);    the
                                                                                                                                                                                   theand
                                                                                                                                                                                    the
                                                                                                                                                                                                ground-truth
                                                                                                                                                                                                 ground-truth
                                                                                                                                                                                                       into
                                                                                                                                                                                                      into
                                                                                                                                                                                                 ground-truth
                                                                                                                                                                                                ground-truth
                                                                                                                                                                                                   (d)    False
                                                                                                                                                                                                 ground-truth    four
                                                                                                                                                                                                                four       value:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             value:(a)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           categories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          categories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             value:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            value:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Negative
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             value:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (a)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (a)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (a)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (a)
                                               based
                                              based
                                             True
                                                True
                                               based
                                              based
                                               True
                                              True         onthe
                                                          on
                                                       Positive
                                                         Positive
                                                          on
                                                          on    the
                                                               the
                                                        Positive
                                                       Positive therelationship
                                                               the      relationship
                                                                       relationship
                                                                        (TP);
                                                                          (TP);
                                                                        relationship
                                                                       relationship
                                                                         (TP);
                                                                        (TP);      (b)
                                                                                     (b)
                                                                                    (b)
                                                                                   (b)       True
                                                                                               True
                                                                                               True
                                                                                             True
                                                                                                     between
                                                                                                       between
                                                                                                      between
                                                                                                          Negative
                                                                                                            Negative
                                                                                                      between
                                                                                                      between
                                                                                                           Negative
                                                                                                          Negative
                                                                                                                          the
                                                                                                                           the
                                                                                                                          the
                                                                                                                           the
                                                                                                                          the
                                                                                                                                   prediction
                                                                                                                                    prediction
                                                                                                                                   prediction
                                                                                                                               (TN);
                                                                                                                                  (TN);    (c)
                                                                                                                                   prediction
                                                                                                                                   prediction
                                                                                                                                 (TN);
                                                                                                                                (TN);         (c)
                                                                                                                                             (c)
                                                                                                                                            (c)   False
                                                                                                                                                   False
                                                                                                                                                   False
                                                                                                                                                  False
                                                                                                                                                         output
                                                                                                                                                          output
                                                                                                                                                         output
                                                                                                                                                              Positive
                                                                                                                                                          output
                                                                                                                                                         output Positive
                                                                                                                                                               Positive
                                                                                                                                                              Positive
                                                                                                                                                                         and
                                                                                                                                                                          and(FP);
                                                                                                                                                                          and
                                                                                                                                                                          and
                                                                                                                                                                          and
                                                                                                                                                                                  the
                                                                                                                                                                                    theground-truth
                                                                                                                                                                                  the
                                                                                                                                                                                  (FP);
                                                                                                                                                                                   the
                                                                                                                                                                                  the
                                                                                                                                                                                 (FP);
                                                                                                                                                                                (FP);            ground-truth
                                                                                                                                                                                                ground-truth
                                                                                                                                                                                                 and
                                                                                                                                                                                                  and
                                                                                                                                                                                                 ground-truth
                                                                                                                                                                                                ground-truth
                                                                                                                                                                                                  and
                                                                                                                                                                                                 and     (d)(d)
                                                                                                                                                                                                           (d)
                                                                                                                                                                                                          (d)   False
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  False
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  False
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 False
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           value:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             value:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            value:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Negative
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Negative
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            value:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            value:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Negative
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Negative
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (a)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (a)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (a)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (a)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (a)
                                         (FN). True
                                              True        study (TP);
                                                  ThisPositive
                                                        Positive        valuated
                                                                         (TP);(b)   (b)True   the         ffectiveness
                                                                                               TrueNegativeNegative(TN);            of defect
                                                                                                                                 (TN);       (c)False detection
                                                                                                                                                   False       Positive    by (FP);
                                                                                                                                                                                 calculating
                                                                                                                                                                                 (FP);and         and(d)     theFalse
                                                                                                                                                                                                           (d)       precision,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Negative
                                               True
                                              True
                                             (FN).
                                                (FN).
                                               True
                                              True
                                               (FN).
                                              (FN).     Positive
                                                       Positive
                                                        This
                                                          This
                                                        Positive
                                                       Positive
                                                          This
                                                         This    study  (TP);
                                                                    study
                                                                   study
                                                                  study  (TP);
                                                                         (TP);
                                                                        (TP);       (b)True
                                                                                   (b)
                                                                               evaluated
                                                                                evaluated
                                                                                    (b)
                                                                                   (b)
                                                                                evaluated
                                                                               evaluated       Truethe
                                                                                              True
                                                                                             True          Negative
                                                                                                          Negative
                                                                                                            theeﬀectiveness
                                                                                                           Negative
                                                                                                          Negative
                                                                                                           the
                                                                                                          the       eﬀectiveness
                                                                                                                    eﬀectiveness
                                                                                                                  eﬀectiveness   (TN);(c)
                                                                                                                                (TN);
                                                                                                                                 (TN);
                                                                                                                                (TN);        (c)
                                                                                                                                            (c)
                                                                                                                                            (c)of
                                                                                                                                             (c)of
                                                                                                                                                of
                                                                                                                                               of  False
                                                                                                                                                  False
                                                                                                                                                    defect
                                                                                                                                                      defect
                                                                                                                                                   False
                                                                                                                                                  False
                                                                                                                                                     defect
                                                                                                                                                    defect
                                                                                                                                                              Positive
                                                                                                                                                               Positive
                                                                                                                                                              Positive
                                                                                                                                                                   detection
                                                                                                                                                                    detection
                                                                                                                                                               Positive
                                                                                                                                                              Positive
                                                                                                                                                                    detection
                                                                                                                                                                   detection     (FP);
                                                                                                                                                                                (FP);
                                                                                                                                                                                 (FP);
                                                                                                                                                                                (FP);   by by  by
                                                                                                                                                                                              by  and
                                                                                                                                                                                                 and
                                                                                                                                                                                                   calculating
                                                                                                                                                                                                  and
                                                                                                                                                                                                 and       (d)False
                                                                                                                                                                                                          (d)
                                                                                                                                                                                                     calculating
                                                                                                                                                                                                          (d)
                                                                                                                                                                                                          (d)
                                                                                                                                                                                                    calculating
                                                                                                                                                                                                    calculating   Falsethe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 False
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 False
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 False
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Negative
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Negative
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Negative
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           the   preci-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   preci-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Negative
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Negative
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   preci-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  preci-
                                         recall,
                                              (FN).
                                              (FN).and
                                               (FN).       F1
                                                        This
                                                         This
                                                        This      cores
                                                                  study
                                                                   study
                                                                  study       of   the
                                                                               evaluated
                                                                                evaluated
                                                                               evaluated      detection   the
                                                                                                           the
                                                                                                          the        model
                                                                                                                  eﬀectiveness
                                                                                                                    eﬀectiveness
                                                                                                                  eﬀectiveness      for   various
                                                                                                                                               of
                                                                                                                                                of
                                                                                                                                               of   defect
                                                                                                                                                     defect
                                                                                                                                                    defect types         of
                                                                                                                                                                   detection
                                                                                                                                                                    detection
                                                                                                                                                                   detection defects.    bybyby    The       precision
                                                                                                                                                                                                    calculating
                                                                                                                                                                                                    calculating
                                                                                                                                                                                                   calculating             the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           the rate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  preci-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   preci-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  preci-
                                               (FN).
                                              (FN).
                                             sion,
                                                sion,
                                               (FN).
                                              (FN).
                                              sion,       This
                                                        This
                                                      recall,
                                               sion,the recall,
                                                         This
                                                        This
                                                        recall,
                                                       recall,     study
                                                                  study
                                                                   and
                                                                     and
                                                                   study
                                                                  study
                                                                     andF1
                                                                    and     F1  evaluated
                                                                               evaluated
                                                                              F1 scores
                                                                                    scores
                                                                                evaluated
                                                                               evaluated
                                                                             F1ofscores
                                                                                   scores          of
                                                                                                    ofof   the
                                                                                                         the
                                                                                                     ofthe  the
                                                                                                           the      eﬀectiveness
                                                                                                                  eﬀectiveness
                                                                                                                 detection
                                                                                                                    detection
                                                                                                                   eﬀectiveness
                                                                                                                  eﬀectiveness
                                                                                                                   detection
                                                                                                           thedetection                model
                                                                                                                                         model
                                                                                                                                        model
                                                                                                                                       model    of
                                                                                                                                               of
                                                                                                                                               of
                                                                                                                                               of    defect
                                                                                                                                                    defect
                                                                                                                                                    for
                                                                                                                                                      for
                                                                                                                                                     defect
                                                                                                                                                    defect various  detection
                                                                                                                                                             varioustypes
                                                                                                                                                     forcalculated detection
                                                                                                                                                              various       types
                                                                                                                                                                    detection
                                                                                                                                                                   detection  types
                                                                                                                                                                             types        by
                                                                                                                                                                                          byof
                                                                                                                                                                                            bybyof  calculating
                                                                                                                                                                                                   calculating
                                                                                                                                                                                                   defects.
                                                                                                                                                                                                    defects.
                                                                                                                                                                                                    calculating
                                                                                                                                                                                                   calculating
                                                                                                                                                                                                ofdefects.
                                                                                                                                                                                                    defects.       The
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     The
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     The    the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            the    preci-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            precision
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           the    preci-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              precision
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  preci-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  preci-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             precision
                                         reflects
                                               sion,
                                              sion,          accuracy
                                                        recall,
                                                       recall,      and      F1       the detection
                                                                                   scores            of    the           findings
                                                                                                                   detection                and for
                                                                                                                                        model        is
                                                                                                                                                     for    various
                                                                                                                                                             various         typesas the      ofof  ratio ofThe
                                                                                                                                                                                                    defects.        The     precision
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      correctly
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     The     precision
                                               sion,
                                              sion,     recall,and
                                                       recall,
                                                ratereflects
                                             rate
                                               sion,
                                              sion,
                                               rate
                                              rate     reflects
                                                       recall,
                                                       recall,
                                                      reflects
                                                     reflects        and
                                                                    and
                                                                    the
                                                                    and
                                                                    and
                                                                     the     F1scores
                                                                            F1
                                                                            F1
                                                                           accuracy
                                                                      thesamples
                                                                    the      accuracy
                                                                             F1
                                                                            F1     scoresof
                                                                                  scores
                                                                                  scores
                                                                            accuracy
                                                                           accuracyscores         of
                                                                                                    of
                                                                                                     ofthe
                                                                                                    of
                                                                                                    of
                                                                                                    of
                                                                                                         the
                                                                                                          the
                                                                                                          the
                                                                                                          the
                                                                                                        the
                                                                                                                 detection
                                                                                                                   detectionfindings
                                                                                                           thedetection
                                                                                                                 detection
                                                                                                                  detection
                                                                                                                 detection
                                                                                                                detection
                                                                                                                                       model
                                                                                                                                        modelfor
                                                                                                                                       model
                                                                                                                                        findings
                                                                                                                                        model
                                                                                                                                       model
                                                                                                                                       findings
                                                                                                                                      findings       for
                                                                                                                                                    for
                                                                                                                                                    forand
                                                                                                                                                     for and
                                                                                                                                                         and
                                                                                                                                                        and
                                                                                                                                                            various
                                                                                                                                                             various
                                                                                                                                                            various
                                                                                                                                                                is
                                                                                                                                                             various
                                                                                                                                                            variousiscalculated
                                                                                                                                                                  is
                                                                                                                                                                 is           typesof
                                                                                                                                                                            types
                                                                                                                                                                            types
                                                                                                                                                                        calculated
                                                                                                                                                                             types
                                                                                                                                                                            types
                                                                                                                                                                        calculated
                                                                                                                                                                      calculated              of
                                                                                                                                                                                              ofof
                                                                                                                                                                                                 as
                                                                                                                                                                                                of
                                                                                                                                                                                                 as
                                                                                                                                                                                                   defects.
                                                                                                                                                                                                    defects.
                                                                                                                                                                                                   defects.
                                                                                                                                                                                                   asthe
                                                                                                                                                                                                    defects.
                                                                                                                                                                                                   defects.
                                                                                                                                                                                                  as   the
                                                                                                                                                                                                      the    ratio
                                                                                                                                                                                                               ratio
                                                                                                                                                                                                        themeasures
                                                                                                                                                                                                               ratio
                                                                                                                                                                                                              ratio  The
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    The
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     The
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    The of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            precision
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             precision
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ofprecision
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            correctly
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              correctly
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             precision
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            precision
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              correctly
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             correctly
                                         predicted
                                               ratereflects
                                              rate       positive
                                                      reflectsthe    theaccuracy
                                                                            accuracyof          to    all
                                                                                                    ofthe    predicted
                                                                                                          thedetection
                                                                                                                 detectionfindings  positive
                                                                                                                                       findingsand    amples.            The
                                                                                                                                                         andisiscalculated        recall
                                                                                                                                                                        calculatedas               rate
                                                                                                                                                                                                  asthetheratioratioof          the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ofcorrectly
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              correctly
                                               rate
                                              rate
                                             predicted
                                               rate   reflects
                                                predicted
                                              rate   reflects
                                                      reflects
                                                     reflects
                                               predicted
                                              predicted
                                         comprehensiveness           the
                                                                    the
                                                                positive
                                                                  positive
                                                                     the
                                                                    the
                                                                 positive
                                                                positive    accuracy
                                                                           accuracy
                                                                           accuracysamples
                                                                            accuracy
                                                                             of  samples
                                                                                   samples
                                                                                  samples
                                                                                   the            of
                                                                                                  ofof
                                                                                                   of
                                                                                              detection the
                                                                                                        tothe
                                                                                                           toall
                                                                                                         the
                                                                                                        the
                                                                                                          to
                                                                                                         to   alldetection
                                                                                                                detection
                                                                                                                all  predicted
                                                                                                                       predicted
                                                                                                                 detection
                                                                                                                detection
                                                                                                               all    predicted
                                                                                                                      predicted
                                                                                                                     findings          findings
                                                                                                                                      findings
                                                                                                                                          positive
                                                                                                                                             positive
                                                                                                                                       findings
                                                                                                                                      findings
                                                                                                                                        and positive
                                                                                                                                           positive
                                                                                                                                                is       and
                                                                                                                                                        and
                                                                                                                                                         and
                                                                                                                                                        and       is
                                                                                                                                                            samples.
                                                                                                                                                                  is
                                                                                                                                                              samples.
                                                                                                                                                             samples.
                                                                                                                                                     calculated  is
                                                                                                                                                              samples.
                                                                                                                                                                 is     calculated
                                                                                                                                                                      calculated
                                                                                                                                                                      calculated
                                                                                                                                                                            by  The
                                                                                                                                                                       calculated The
                                                                                                                                                                                 The
                                                                                                                                                                                The
                                                                                                                                                                                  dividing        as
                                                                                                                                                                                                 as
                                                                                                                                                                                              recall
                                                                                                                                                                                                 as   the
                                                                                                                                                                                                 recall
                                                                                                                                                                                                  as
                                                                                                                                                                                                recall
                                                                                                                                                                                               recall  the
                                                                                                                                                                                                      the
                                                                                                                                                                                                      the  rate
                                                                                                                                                                                                           rate
                                                                                                                                                                                                           the ratio
                                                                                                                                                                                                              ratio
                                                                                                                                                                                                             rate
                                                                                                                                                                                                              ratio
                                                                                                                                                                                                              ratio
                                                                                                                                                                                                            rate         of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    measures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     measures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    measures  correctly
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             correctly
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      measures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  numberof        of the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              correctly
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             correctly  the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      the
                                               predictedpositive
                                              predicted          positivesamples   samplesto              toallallpredicted
                                                                                                                      predictedpositive     positivesamples.  samples.The        Therecall      recallrate  ratemeasures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     measures           the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      the
                                               predicted
                                              predicted
                                             comprehensiveness
                                                comprehensiveness
                                               predicted
                                              predicted
                                               comprehensiveness
                                              comprehensiveness
                                         correctly               positive
                                                                positive
                                                                 positive
                                                                positive
                                                        predicted positive         samples
                                                                                 samples
                                                                                     ofof
                                                                                     amples
                                                                                   amples
                                                                                       of
                                                                                      of     the
                                                                                               the
                                                                                               the
                                                                                              thesamples  to
                                                                                                         to
                                                                                                      detection
                                                                                                        detection
                                                                                                         to
                                                                                                         to    all
                                                                                                              all
                                                                                                               all
                                                                                                              all
                                                                                                       detection
                                                                                                      detection        predicted
                                                                                                                      predicted
                                                                                                                            findings
                                                                                                                              findings
                                                                                                                      predicted
                                                                                                                      predicted
                                                                                                                     by the   findings
                                                                                                                             findings       positive
                                                                                                                                           positive
                                                                                                                                               and
                                                                                                                                            positive
                                                                                                                                           positive
                                                                                                                                                and
                                                                                                                                               and
                                                                                                                                    total numberand     is
                                                                                                                                                        isis
                                                                                                                                                         is   samples.
                                                                                                                                                             samples.
                                                                                                                                                             calculated
                                                                                                                                                               calculated
                                                                                                                                                              samples.
                                                                                                                                                             samples.
                                                                                                                                                              calculated
                                                                                                                                                             calculated          The
                                                                                                                                                                                The
                                                                                                                                                                                 The
                                                                                                                                                                                The
                                                                                                                                                                of actual positive byby
                                                                                                                                                                                     by
                                                                                                                                                                                    by          recall
                                                                                                                                                                                               recall
                                                                                                                                                                                               dividing
                                                                                                                                                                                                 dividing
                                                                                                                                                                                                recall
                                                                                                                                                                                               recall
                                                                                                                                                                                                 dividing
                                                                                                                                                                                                dividing    rate
                                                                                                                                                                                                           rate
                                                                                                                                                                                                            rate
                                                                                                                                                                                                           rate  the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  themeasures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    measures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    the  number
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           number
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     measures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    measures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   the
                                                                                                                                                                                                          occurrences.    number
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          number        the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      theof
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       theof
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         of
                                              comprehensiveness
                                               comprehensiveness
                                              comprehensiveness                      of
                                                                                      ofthe
                                                                                     of       the
                                                                                               the    detection
                                                                                                       detection             findings
                                                                                                                              findings         and
                                                                                                                                                andis   is   calculated
                                                                                                                                                         iscalculated
                                                                                                                                                              calculated            by
                                                                                                                                                                                     bydividing dividing
                                                                                                                                                                                                 dividing         the     number
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   thenumber
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          numberof       of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          of
                                               comprehensiveness
                                              comprehensiveness
                                             correctly
                                                correctly
                                               comprehensiveness
                                              comprehensiveness
                                               correctly
                                              correctly       predicted
                                                                predicted
                                                                predicted
                                                               predicted             of
                                                                                     ofofthe
                                                                                   positive
                                                                                     positive
                                                                                      of
                                                                                     positive
                                                                                    positive   thedetection
                                                                                              the
                                                                                             the       detection
                                                                                                      detection
                                                                                                          samples
                                                                                                            samples
                                                                                                       detection
                                                                                                      detection
                                                                                                           samples
                                                                                                           samples
                                                                                                                            findings
                                                                                                                              findings
                                                                                                                            findings
                                                                                                                             byby
                                                                                                                            findings
                                                                                                                               by
                                                                                                                              by    the
                                                                                                                             findings the
                                                                                                                                      the
                                                                                                                                     the
                                                                                                                                               and
                                                                                                                                               and
                                                                                                                                           totalandnumber
                                                                                                                                             total
                                                                                                                                               and
                                                                                                                                               and
                                                                                                                                             total
                                                                                                                                            total        iscalculated
                                                                                                                                                        is
                                                                                                                                                        number
                                                                                                                                                         is
                                                                                                                                                        is
                                                                                                                                                       number
                                                                                                                                                      number  calculated
                                                                                                                                                              calculated
                                                                                                                                                             calculated  of
                                                                                                                                                                          of
                                                                                                                                                                          of
                                                                                                                                                                         of  actual by
                                                                                                                                                                               actual
                                                                                                                                                                              actual
                                                                                                                                                                                    by
                                                                                                                                                                                     bydividing
                                                                                                                                                                                     by
                                                                                                                                                                                    by
                                                                                                                                                                               actual            dividing
                                                                                                                                                                                                 positive
                                                                                                                                                                                                  positive
                                                                                                                                                                                                dividing
                                                                                                                                                                                                dividing
                                                                                                                                                                                                  positive
                                                                                                                                                                                                 positive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    occurrences.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  the     numberof
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         number
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 occurrences.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          number
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         number
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   occurrences.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  occurrences.            of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         of
                                              correctly        predicted
                                               correctlypredicted
                                              correctly         predictedpositive   positive
                                                                                     positivesamples       samples
                                                                                                           samplesby          by
                                                                                                                               bythe the    total
                                                                                                                                     thetotal         number
                                                                                                                                             totalnumber
                                                                                                                                                       numberof          of  actual
                                                                                                                                                                          ofactual
                                                                                                                                                                              actualpositive     positive         occurrences.
                                                                                                                                                                                                  positiveoccurrences.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   occurrences.
                                              correctly         predictedpositive
                                               correctlypredicted
                                              correctly
                                               correctly       predicted
                                                              predicted              positivesamples
                                                                                    positive
                                                                                    positive               samplesby
                                                                                                           samples
                                                                                                          samples            bybythe
                                                                                                                              by      thetotal
                                                                                                                                     the
                                                                                                                                    the      total
                                                                                                                                                TPnumber
                                                                                                                                            total
                                                                                                                                            total      numberof
                                                                                                                                                      number
                                                                                                                                                     number              of    actualpositive
                                                                                                                                                                          ofactual
                                                                                                                                                                         of   actual
                                                                                                                                                                             actual              positive          occurrences.
                                                                                                                                                                                                  positiveoccurrences.
                                                                                                                                                                                                 positive          occurrences.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  occurrences.
                                                                                                             Precision     Precision =
                                                                                                                             Precision           = = FP                                                                        (23)(23)
                                                                                                                            Precision
                                                                                                                           Precision
                                                                                                                            Precision=    TP     =
                                                                                                                                                 +=
                                                                                                                                                  =
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (23)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (23)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (23)
                                                                                                                           Precision
                                                                                                                            Precision
                                                                                                                           Precision             ==
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (23)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (23)
                                                                                                                            Precision =
                                                                                                                           Precision              =                                                                                   (23)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (23)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (23)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (23)
                                                                                                                                             TP
                                                                                                                Recall Recall    Recall=
                                                                                                                                Recall
                                                                                                                               Recall
                                                                                                                                Recall
                                                                                                                                 =           = =
                                                                                                                                               =
                                                                                                                                               =                                                                               (24)(24)(24)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (24)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (24)
                                                                                                                               Recall
                                                                                                                                Recall
                                                                                                                               Recall  TP    =
                                                                                                                                             =+=   FN                                                                                 (24)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (24)
                                                                                                                                Recall =
                                                                                                                               Recall         =                                                                                       (24)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (24)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (24)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (24)
                                                 TheThe The
                                                       The
                                                      The     classification
                                                                classification
                                                                classification
                                                              classification
                                                        classification
                                                       The
                                                      The       classification
                                                              classification       issue      issue
                                                                                                issue
                                                                                               issue
                                                                                              issue
                                                                                              issueshould
                                                                                               issue
                                                                                                            should
                                                                                                              should
                                                                                                             should
                                                                                                            should
                                                                                                             should
                                                                                                            should
                                                                                                                            consider
                                                                                                                     consider  consider
                                                                                                                              consider
                                                                                                                             consider
                                                                                                                              consider
                                                                                                                             consider    both   both
                                                                                                                                                  both
                                                                                                                                                 both
                                                                                                                                                both
                                                                                                                                                   the
                                                                                                                                                 both
                                                                                                                                                both
                                                                                                                                                           the
                                                                                                                                                             theprecision
                                                                                                                                                             the
                                                                                                                                                           the
                                                                                                                                                           the
                                                                                                                                                                    precision
                                                                                                                                                            precision
                                                                                                                                                            the
                                                                                                                                                                      precision
                                                                                                                                                                     precision
                                                                                                                                                                     precision
                                                                                                                                                                    precision    of        of
                                                                                                                                                                                            of  ofclassification
                                                                                                                                                                                                of  classification
                                                                                                                                                                                                   classification
                                                                                                                                                                                       classification
                                                                                                                                                                                            of of
                                                                                                                                                                                                     classification
                                                                                                                                                                                                    classification
                                                                                                                                                                                                   classification       and    and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      the
                                                       The
                                                      The
                                             thoroughness
                                                thoroughness
                                         thoroughness  The
                                                      The
                                               thoroughness
                                              thoroughness      classification
                                                              classification
                                                                         ofof
                                                               classification
                                                              classification
                                                                          of
                                                                         of
                                                                 of detection.detection.
                                                                               detection.
                                                                               detection.
                                                                              detection.       issue
                                                                                              issue
                                                                                               issue
                                                                                              issue     To
                                                                                                To assess To
                                                                                                         To
                                                                                                         To  should
                                                                                                            should
                                                                                                               assess
                                                                                                                 assess
                                                                                                             should
                                                                                                            should
                                                                                                                assess
                                                                                                               assess the the consider
                                                                                                                             consider
                                                                                                                              the
                                                                                                                                the
                                                                                                                              consider
                                                                                                                             consider
                                                                                                                                the
                                                                                                                               the
                                                                                                                               model  model
                                                                                                                                        model
                                                                                                                                        model
                                                                                                                                       model     both
                                                                                                                                                both
                                                                                                                                                   by
                                                                                                                                                 both
                                                                                                                                                both by
                                                                                                                                                     by
                                                                                                                                                    by
                                                                                                                                             by combining    the
                                                                                                                                                           the
                                                                                                                                                           combining
                                                                                                                                                            the
                                                                                                                                                           combining precision
                                                                                                                                                                    precision
                                                                                                                                                             combining
                                                                                                                                                           the      precision
                                                                                                                                                                    precision
                                                                                                                                                            combining              precision
                                                                                                                                                                            precision       of
                                                                                                                                                                                     precision
                                                                                                                                                                                   precisionof
                                                                                                                                                                                    precision   of
                                                                                                                                                                                               of   classification
                                                                                                                                                                                                   classification
                                                                                                                                                                                                    andand  and
                                                                                                                                                                                                              and
                                                                                                                                                                                                    classification
                                                                                                                                                                                                   classification
                                                                                                                                                                                                             and
                                                                                                                                                                                                             and
                                                                                                                                                                                                              recall,recall,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       recall,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       recall,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      recall,   and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               andthe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 F1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           the the the  the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        F1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      the F1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         F1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         F1
                                              thoroughness
                                               thoroughness
                                              thoroughness               of
                                                                         of   detection.
                                                                               detection.
                                                                          ofdetection.                   To    assess
                                                                                                         Toassess
                                                                                                        To      assess         the
                                                                                                                               themodelmodel
                                                                                                                                        model       by     combining
                                                                                                                                                     bycombining
                                                                                                                                                    by      combining              precision
                                                                                                                                                                                    precision
                                                                                                                                                                                   precision                 and
                                                                                                                                                                                                             and      recall,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       recall,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     recall,     the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  theF1  F1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         F1
                                         score thoroughness
                                              thoroughness
                                             score
                                                score  is is
                                               thoroughness
                                              thoroughness
                                               score
                                              score     is   used:
                                                         isused:
                                                  is used:  used:
                                                              used:       of
                                                                         of
                                                                          of
                                                                         of    detection.
                                                                              detection.
                                                                               detection.
                                                                              detection.                 To
                                                                                                        To
                                                                                                         To
                                                                                                        To      assess
                                                                                                               assess
                                                                                                                assess
                                                                                                               assess           the
                                                                                                                              the
                                                                                                                               the
                                                                                                                              the       model
                                                                                                                                       model
                                                                                                                                       model
                                                                                                                                       model         by
                                                                                                                                                    by
                                                                                                                                                     by
                                                                                                                                                    by      combining
                                                                                                                                                           combining
                                                                                                                                                            combining
                                                                                                                                                           combining                precision
                                                                                                                                                                                   precision
                                                                                                                                                                                    precision
                                                                                                                                                                                   precision                 and
                                                                                                                                                                                                            and
                                                                                                                                                                                                             and
                                                                                                                                                                                                            and        recall,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     recall,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      recall,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     recall,      the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 the     F1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        F1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         F1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        F1
                                               score
                                              score      is  used:
                                               scoreis
                                              score
                                               score
                                              score      isused:
                                                        is
                                                         is
                                                        is   used:
                                                            used:
                                                             used:
                                                            used:                                                          2                         2·Precision    ..
                                                                                                                                                                             ·Recall    .. ..
                                                                         F1 − score       F1-score
                                                                                             F1-score=            = = + 1 = Precision                     = = ........ + Recall                                                (25)
                                                                                             F1-score
                                                                                           F1-score               =1=                                      ==                            ......                                     (25)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (25)
                                                                                             F1-score
                                                                                          F1-score                = =                                     ==         ..                   . .                                         (25)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (25)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (25)
                                                                                             F1-score=
                                                                                           F1-score
                                                                                            F1-score
                                                                                           F1-score                 =
                                                                                                             Precision
                                                                                                                  ==
                                                                                                                                   Recall
                                                                                                                                                           =
                                                                                                                                                           =
                                                                                                                                                           ==                                                                        (25)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (25)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (25)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (25)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (25)
                                                 TableTable3 presents the the           detection               data. Every                row represents                  the predicted                     category, andand
                                                        Table3333presents
                                                       Table
                                                      Table           presentsthe
                                                                      presents
                                                                     presents              thedetection
                                                                                         the        detectiondata.
                                                                                                    detection
                                                                                                  detection               data.Every
                                                                                                                          data.
                                                                                                                         data.         Everyrow
                                                                                                                                      Every
                                                                                                                                     Every        row        representsthe
                                                                                                                                                   rowrepresents
                                                                                                                                                 row        represents
                                                                                                                                                           represents               thepredicted
                                                                                                                                                                                   the
                                                                                                                                                                                  the            predictedcategory,
                                                                                                                                                                                                predicted
                                                                                                                                                                                                predicted            category,and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     category,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    category,          and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      and
                                         every attribute
                                                      Table           presentsthe
                                                       Table33represents
                                                                     presents            the        detection
                                                                                           thedetection
                                                                                                     actual class.        data.
                                                                                                                        data.    The  Every
                                                                                                                                     Everyoverall rownumber
                                                                                                                                                 row        represents
                                                                                                                                                           represents              thepredicted
                                                                                                                                                                           of ymbols
                                                                                                                                                                                  the           predicted            category,
                                                                                                                                                                                                       in eachcategory,categoryand    and
                                             every
                                                every
                                               every
                                              every    Table
                                                      Table
                                                        attribute
                                                       Table
                                                      Table
                                                        attribute33
                                                          attribute   presents
                                                                     presents
                                                                          represents
                                                                 33 presents
                                                          attribute         represents
                                                                     presents
                                                                           represents
                                                                          represents      the
                                                                                        the         detection
                                                                                                  detection
                                                                                        the detection
                                                                                        the          the
                                                                                                       theactual
                                                                                                   detection
                                                                                                      the
                                                                                                     the       actual
                                                                                                              actual
                                                                                                             actual       data.
                                                                                                                         data.
                                                                                                                           class.
                                                                                                                         data.class.
                                                                                                                          data.
                                                                                                                             class.
                                                                                                                            class.    Every
                                                                                                                                     Every
                                                                                                                                        The
                                                                                                                                      Every
                                                                                                                                     EveryTheoverall
                                                                                                                                         The
                                                                                                                                         The      row
                                                                                                                                                 row
                                                                                                                                                  overall
                                                                                                                                                  row
                                                                                                                                                 row
                                                                                                                                                 overall
                                                                                                                                                 overall    represents
                                                                                                                                                           represents
                                                                                                                                                                  numberof
                                                                                                                                                                number
                                                                                                                                                            represents
                                                                                                                                                           represents
                                                                                                                                                                 number
                                                                                                                                                                number             the
                                                                                                                                                                                  the
                                                                                                                                                                                    ofsymbols
                                                                                                                                                                                   the
                                                                                                                                                                                  the
                                                                                                                                                                                   of
                                                                                                                                                                                  of            predicted
                                                                                                                                                                                            symbols
                                                                                                                                                                                        symbolspredicted
                                                                                                                                                                                                predicted
                                                                                                                                                                                               predicted
                                                                                                                                                                                           symbols            in
                                                                                                                                                                                                               in
                                                                                                                                                                                                              in     category,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    category,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     eachcategory
                                                                                                                                                                                                                ineach
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    category,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    category,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    each
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   each        category
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              category
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             category and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      and
                                               every
                                         is represented
                                              every       attribute
                                                        attributeby the    represents
                                                                               sum of each
                                                                          represents                  the
                                                                                                     the      actual
                                                                                                              column.
                                                                                                             actual          class.
                                                                                                                           class. TheThe The     overall
                                                                                                                                          predicted
                                                                                                                                                overall          number
                                                                                                                                                               category
                                                                                                                                                                number             of
                                                                                                                                                                                   and
                                                                                                                                                                                  of       symbols
                                                                                                                                                                                                 the overall   in   eachnumbercategory
                                               every
                                              every
                                             isevery
                                              every
                                               is
                                              isis        attribute
                                                        attribute
                                                  represented
                                                   represented
                                                         attribute
                                                        attribute
                                                   represented
                                                  represented             represents
                                                                         byrepresents
                                                                           by
                                                                           represents
                                                                          represents
                                                                          by
                                                                          by   the
                                                                                 the
                                                                                the
                                                                               the     sum sum
                                                                                         sum
                                                                                        sum           the
                                                                                                     the
                                                                                                     ofof
                                                                                                      the
                                                                                                     the
                                                                                                      of
                                                                                                      of      actual
                                                                                                             actual
                                                                                                             ach
                                                                                                             each
                                                                                                              actual
                                                                                                             actual
                                                                                                            each
                                                                                                             ach      column.class.
                                                                                                                            class.
                                                                                                                        column.
                                                                                                                            class.
                                                                                                                            class.
                                                                                                                        column.
                                                                                                                       column.           The
                                                                                                                                         The
                                                                                                                                         The
                                                                                                                                          The
                                                                                                                                         The
                                                                                                                                          The
                                                                                                                                         The     overall
                                                                                                                                                overall
                                                                                                                                                 predicted
                                                                                                                                                   predicted
                                                                                                                                                 overall
                                                                                                                                                overall
                                                                                                                                                   predicted
                                                                                                                                                  predicted      number
                                                                                                                                                                number
                                                                                                                                                                 number
                                                                                                                                                                number  category
                                                                                                                                                                         category
                                                                                                                                                                         category
                                                                                                                                                                        category   ofsymbols
                                                                                                                                                                                  of
                                                                                                                                                                                   of
                                                                                                                                                                                  of       symbols
                                                                                                                                                                                        symbols
                                                                                                                                                                                        symbols and
                                                                                                                                                                                          symbolsand
                                                                                                                                                                                                 and
                                                                                                                                                                                                and     the
                                                                                                                                                                                                          the
                                                                                                                                                                                                         the
                                                                                                                                                                                                        the
                                                                                                                                                                                                              in
                                                                                                                                                                                                               in
                                                                                                                                                                                                              in
                                                                                                                                                                                                              in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   each
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   each
                                                                                                                                                                                                               overall
                                                                                                                                                                                                               in    each
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 overall
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    each
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   each
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 overall
                                                                                                                                                                                                                overall
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             category
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              category
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             category
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              number
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                number
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              category
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             category
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               number
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               number
                                              is
                                              is  represented
                                                   represented
                                               isrepresented
                                         of predicted         symbols     by
                                                                          bythe
                                                                         by    the
                                                                                the
                                                                                 forsum sum
                                                                                         sum
                                                                                           each       of
                                                                                                      of
                                                                                                     of     each
                                                                                                            eachcolumn.
                                                                                                        category
                                                                                                           each        column.
                                                                                                                       column.
                                                                                                                             are shown   The      predicted
                                                                                                                                          Thepredicted
                                                                                                                                         The       predicted
                                                                                                                                                    in each row.        category
                                                                                                                                                                         category
                                                                                                                                                                        categoryOur proposed    and
                                                                                                                                                                                                 andthe
                                                                                                                                                                                                and     the     overall
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 overall
                                                                                                                                                                                                         theoverall approach   number
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               number
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              number
                                             ofis
                                              is
                                               is
                                              is
                                               of
                                              of   represented
                                                ofrepresented
                                                    predictedsymbols
                                                   predicted
                                                   represented
                                                  represented
                                                    predicted
                                                   predicted              bythe
                                                                         by
                                                                        symbols
                                                                          by
                                                                         by
                                                                       symbols
                                                                       symbols  the
                                                                                the
                                                                               the        sum
                                                                                           um
                                                                                          for
                                                                                         sum
                                                                                           um foreach
                                                                                             for
                                                                                           for        of
                                                                                                     of
                                                                                                      each
                                                                                                      of
                                                                                                     of
                                                                                                      each
                                                                                                     each    each
                                                                                                           each
                                                                                                            each
                                                                                                           each         column.
                                                                                                                       column.
                                                                                                                category
                                                                                                                  category
                                                                                                                       column.
                                                                                                                       column.
                                                                                                                 category
                                                                                                                category             are  The
                                                                                                                                         The
                                                                                                                                       are
                                                                                                                                      are
                                                                                                                                      are   shown
                                                                                                                                          The
                                                                                                                                         The     predicted
                                                                                                                                              shown
                                                                                                                                                 predicted
                                                                                                                                              shown
                                                                                                                                             shown predicted
                                                                                                                                                  predicted in
                                                                                                                                                            inineach
                                                                                                                                                             in     each
                                                                                                                                                                   each
                                                                                                                                                                  each   category
                                                                                                                                                                        category
                                                                                                                                                                              row.Our
                                                                                                                                                                            row.
                                                                                                                                                                         category
                                                                                                                                                                        category
                                                                                                                                                                              row.
                                                                                                                                                                             row.          Our  and
                                                                                                                                                                                              Ourandproposed
                                                                                                                                                                                               Our
                                                                                                                                                                                                 and
                                                                                                                                                                                                and     the
                                                                                                                                                                                                        proposed
                                                                                                                                                                                                         the
                                                                                                                                                                                                        the
                                                                                                                                                                                                        proposed
                                                                                                                                                                                                       proposed  overall
                                                                                                                                                                                                         theoverall
                                                                                                                                                                                                                overall
                                                                                                                                                                                                                overall        number
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              number
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           approach
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             approach
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               number
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              number
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            approach
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            approach
                                              of
                                         can ofof  predicted
                                                    predicted
                                               essentially
                                                   predicted           symbols
                                                                       symbols
                                                                      etect
                                                                      symbols   a majority for
                                                                                             for
                                                                                           for       each
                                                                                                      each
                                                                                                    each        category
                                                                                                                 category
                                                                                                                 single-line-based
                                                                                                            ofcategory               are
                                                                                                                                      are
                                                                                                                                     are     shown
                                                                                                                                              shown
                                                                                                                                             shown          in
                                                                                                                                                             in
                                                                                                                                                      engineering
                                                                                                                                                            in    each
                                                                                                                                                                   each
                                                                                                                                                                 each        row.
                                                                                                                                                                              row.
                                                                                                                                                                            row. symbols   Our
                                                                                                                                                                                          Our Our      proposed
                                                                                                                                                                                                        proposed
                                                                                                                                                                                                         while ensuring
                                                                                                                                                                                                      proposed              approach
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            approach
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           approach
                                               of
                                              of
                                             cancan
                                               of
                                              of
                                               can
                                              can   predicted
                                                   predicted
                                                     essentially
                                                      essentially
                                                    predicted
                                                   predicted
                                                      essentially
                                                     essentially       symbols
                                                                      symbols
                                                                          detect
                                                                            detect
                                                                       symbols
                                                                      symbols
                                                                           detecthe
                                                                           detect        a   for
                                                                                           for
                                                                                             a
                                                                                            afor
                                                                                          afor        each
                                                                                                    each
                                                                                               majority
                                                                                                 majority
                                                                                                majority
                                                                                               majority          category
                                                                                                                category
                                                                                                                    of
                                                                                                                 category
                                                                                                     each category
                                                                                                    each             of
                                                                                                                    ofof               are
                                                                                                                                     are
                                                                                                                         single-line-based
                                                                                                                           single-line-based
                                                                                                                                      are shown
                                                                                                                                     are
                                                                                                                           single-line-based
                                                                                                                          single-line-based   shown
                                                                                                                                             shown
                                                                                                                                             shown in        in
                                                                                                                                                            in
                                                                                                                                                             in    each
                                                                                                                                                                  each
                                                                                                                                                              engineering
                                                                                                                                                                engineering
                                                                                                                                                                   each row.
                                                                                                                                                                  each
                                                                                                                                                                engineering
                                                                                                                                                               engineering    row.
                                                                                                                                                                             row.
                                                                                                                                                                             row. Our      OurOur
                                                                                                                                                                                            symbols
                                                                                                                                                                                            Our       proposed
                                                                                                                                                                                                symbolsproposed
                                                                                                                                                                                                      proposed
                                                                                                                                                                                                symbols
                                                                                                                                                                                              symbols   proposedwhile
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  while
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 while
                                                                                                                                                                                                                while       approach
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           approach
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ensuring
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ensuring
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            approach
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           approach
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ensuring
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ensuring
                                               can
                                         accuracy.
                                              can     essentially
                                                          In this study,
                                                     essentially           detect
                                                                          detect         aaaamajority
                                                                                                majority
                                                                                                  averageof          of    single-line-based
                                                                                                                      recall        rate was 90.67%,
                                                                                                                          single-line-based                    engineering
                                                                                                                                                              engineeringthe precision          symbols
                                                                                                                                                                                            symbols       of all while
                                                                                                                                                                                                                while  kinds  ensuring
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ensuring
                                               can
                                              can
                                             accuracy.essentially
                                                accuracy.
                                               can
                                              can    essentially
                                                     essentially
                                                     essentially
                                               accuracy.
                                              accuracy.         In
                                                                InInthis
                                                                 In   this detect
                                                                           detect
                                                                        this
                                                                       this    study,
                                                                                study,
                                                                           detect
                                                                           detect
                                                                                study,
                                                                               study,     aa    majority
                                                                                               majority
                                                                                                 thetheaverage
                                                                                                majority
                                                                                               majority
                                                                                                   the
                                                                                                  the        average
                                                                                                            average
                                                                                                           average   of
                                                                                                                    of
                                                                                                                     of
                                                                                                                    of     single-line-based
                                                                                                                          single-line-based
                                                                                                                                recallrate
                                                                                                                              recall
                                                                                                                          single-line-based
                                                                                                                          single-line-based
                                                                                                                               recall
                                                                                                                              recall         ratewas
                                                                                                                                            rate
                                                                                                                                           rate      was90.67%,
                                                                                                                                                     was
                                                                                                                                                    was         engineering
                                                                                                                                                               engineering
                                                                                                                                                                90.67%,the
                                                                                                                                                               engineering
                                                                                                                                                               engineering
                                                                                                                                                               90.67%,
                                                                                                                                                              90.67%,             theprecision
                                                                                                                                                                                 the
                                                                                                                                                                                the             symbols
                                                                                                                                                                                             symbols
                                                                                                                                                                                                precision
                                                                                                                                                                                               symbols
                                                                                                                                                                                             symbols
                                                                                                                                                                                               precision
                                                                                                                                                                                           precision             while
                                                                                                                                                                                                                while
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ofofall
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 while
                                                                                                                                                                                                                while
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  of     allensuring
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         all
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        all   ensuring
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               kindsof
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             kinds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ensuring
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ensuring
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               kinds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              kinds       of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         of
                                         symbolaccuracy.
                                                      detection
                                              accuracy.          In this
                                                                In     this
                                                                          was     tudy,
                                                                                    above
                                                                               study,              the
                                                                                                 the  90%,  average
                                                                                                           average and         recall
                                                                                                                             the
                                                                                                                              recall   F1   rate
                                                                                                                                             score
                                                                                                                                           rate      was
                                                                                                                                                    was  was   90.67%,
                                                                                                                                                                   greater
                                                                                                                                                              90.67%,            the
                                                                                                                                                                                the than      precision
                                                                                                                                                                                           precision0.9.      Theof     all    kinds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         all kinds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   of average             of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         of
                                               accuracy.
                                              accuracy.
                                                symboldetection
                                             symbol
                                               accuracy.
                                              accuracy.          In
                                                                In
                                                              detection
                                                                 Inwas
                                                                In     this
                                                                      this
                                                                      this      study,
                                                                               study,
                                                                                 wasabove
                                                                               was
                                                                                study,
                                                                       this90.67%,
                                                                               study,              the
                                                                                                  the
                                                                                               above
                                                                                                  the
                                                                                                  the       average
                                                                                                           average
                                                                                                            90%,
                                                                                                              90%,and
                                                                                                            average       and  recall
                                                                                                                              recalltheF1
                                                                                                                                  the
                                                                                                                               recall       rate
                                                                                                                                           rate
                                                                                                                                           F1  score
                                                                                                                                            rate     was
                                                                                                                                                    was
                                                                                                                                                     waswas
                                                                                                                                                 score         90.67%,
                                                                                                                                                              90.67%,
                                                                                                                                                              was    greater
                                                                                                                                                               90.67%,  greater  the
                                                                                                                                                                                the
                                                                                                                                                                                 thethanthan   precision
                                                                                                                                                                                           precision  0.9.The
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.9.
                                                                                                                                                                                              precision        The of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  of     all
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        all
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ofs,average
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        average
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        all    kinds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              kinds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              kinds  rec- of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       rec-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          of
                                               symbol
                                              symbol
                                               symbol
                                         recollection
                                              symbol
                                                             detection
                                                            detection
                                                             detection
                                                             rate
                                                            detection
                                                                                 was
                                                                                was
                                                                                 was
                                                                                was
                                                                                              above
                                                                                             above
                                                                                              above
                                                                                            above  the average
                                                                                                             90%,
                                                                                                            90%,
                                                                                                             90%,
                                                                                                           average
                                                                                                            90%,
                                                                                                                         and
                                                                                                                        and
                                                                                                                         and
                                                                                                                        and
                                                                                                                              recall
                                                                                                                                   the
                                                                                                                                  the
                                                                                                                                   the
                                                                                                                                 etection
                                                                                                                                  the
                                                                                                                                          F1
                                                                                                                                          F1
                                                                                                                                          F1
                                                                                                                                         F1
                                                                                                                                           ratescorewas
                                                                                                                                                score
                                                                                                                                                score
                                                                                                                                                 time      was90.67%,
                                                                                                                                                             was
                                                                                                                                                             was
                                                                                                                                                            for        greater
                                                                                                                                                                     greater
                                                                                                                                                                   eachgreater  the
                                                                                                                                                                             frame     than
                                                                                                                                                                                      than
                                                                                                                                                                                       thanprecision
                                                                                                                                                                                                was  0.9.
                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.9.
                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.9.0.074The
                                                                                                                                                                                                             The
                                                                                                                                                                                                              The of     andkinds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        all
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        average
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       average
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        average therec-  of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      rec-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     rec-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      rec-
                                               symbol
                                              symbol
                                             ollection
                                                ollection
                                               symbol
                                              symbol
                                               ollection
                                              ollection      detection
                                                            detection
                                                              rate
                                                                rate
                                                             detection
                                                            detection
                                                               rate
                                                              rate     was
                                                                         was
                                                                         was
                                                                        was      was
                                                                                was
                                                                                90.67%,
                                                                                  90.67%,
                                                                                was
                                                                                was
                                                                                  90.67%,
                                                                                 90.67%,      above
                                                                                             above
                                                                                             above
                                                                                             above    the
                                                                                                        the
                                                                                                        the
                                                                                                       the   90%,
                                                                                                            90%,
                                                                                                               average
                                                                                                             90%,
                                                                                                            90%,average
                                                                                                                average
                                                                                                               average   anddetection
                                                                                                                        and
                                                                                                                         and
                                                                                                                        and        the
                                                                                                                                  the
                                                                                                                                   the
                                                                                                                                  the     F1score
                                                                                                                                          F1
                                                                                                                                    detection
                                                                                                                                          F1
                                                                                                                                          F1
                                                                                                                                   detection
                                                                                                                                   detection    score
                                                                                                                                               score
                                                                                                                                                score
                                                                                                                                               score time  was
                                                                                                                                                           was
                                                                                                                                                        time
                                                                                                                                                       time
                                                                                                                                                      time   was
                                                                                                                                                            was
                                                                                                                                                           was  forfor
                                                                                                                                                                  for
                                                                                                                                                                 for
                                                                                                                                                                     greater
                                                                                                                                                                       greater
                                                                                                                                                                     greater
                                                                                                                                                                         each
                                                                                                                                                                          each
                                                                                                                                                                       greater
                                                                                                                                                                     greater
                                                                                                                                                                          each
                                                                                                                                                                         each
                                                                                                                                                                                      than
                                                                                                                                                                                       than0.9.
                                                                                                                                                                                      than
                                                                                                                                                                                   frame
                                                                                                                                                                                     frame
                                                                                                                                                                                       than
                                                                                                                                                                                      than
                                                                                                                                                                                     frame
                                                                                                                                                                                    frame             0.9.
                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.9.
                                                                                                                                                                                                     was
                                                                                                                                                                                                       was
                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.9.
                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.9.
                                                                                                                                                                                                       was
                                                                                                                                                                                                      was
                                                                                                                                                                                                             The
                                                                                                                                                                                                              The
                                                                                                                                                                                                             The
                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.074
                                                                                                                                                                                                              The
                                                                                                                                                                                                             The 0.074
                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.074
                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.074
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      average
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        average
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       average
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          s,s,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       average
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       average
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            s,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           s,  and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               and    rec-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     rec-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      rec-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     rec-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       the
                                              ollection
                                               ollection
                                         average
                                              ollection       rate
                                                      detectionratewas
                                                              rate      was
                                                                         was     90.67%,
                                                                                  90.67%,
                                                                         time90.67%,for eachthe        the
                                                                                                        the
                                                                                                          frameaverage
                                                                                                                average
                                                                                                               average            detection
                                                                                                                                   detection
                                                                                                                        was detection
                                                                                                                                   0.074      s. time time
                                                                                                                                                       timefor   for     each
                                                                                                                                                                  for eacheach frameframe
                                                                                                                                                                                     frame was        was
                                                                                                                                                                                                       was0.074 0.074
                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.074s,    s,  and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            s,and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                and thethe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       the
                                               ollection
                                              ollection
                                              average          rate was
                                                averagedetection
                                             average
                                               ollection
                                              ollection
                                               average        rate
                                                              detection
                                                               rate
                                                              rate
                                                              detection
                                                             detection   wastime
                                                                        was
                                                                        was       90.67%,
                                                                                 90.67%,
                                                                                  timefor
                                                                                 90.67%,
                                                                                 90.67%,
                                                                                  time
                                                                                 time            forthe
                                                                                                for
                                                                                               for      the
                                                                                                      each
                                                                                                       the
                                                                                                      theeach
                                                                                                        each
                                                                                                       each     average
                                                                                                               average
                                                                                                                     framewas
                                                                                                                  frame
                                                                                                               average
                                                                                                               average
                                                                                                                    frame
                                                                                                                   frame           detection
                                                                                                                                  detection
                                                                                                                                   was
                                                                                                                                   detection
                                                                                                                                  was
                                                                                                                                 was        0.074s.
                                                                                                                                          0.074
                                                                                                                                  detection0.074
                                                                                                                                          0.074        time
                                                                                                                                                       s. for
                                                                                                                                                      time
                                                                                                                                                      time
                                                                                                                                                      time
                                                                                                                                                      s.
                                                                                                                                                     s.           for each
                                                                                                                                                                  for
                                                                                                                                                                 for      each frame
                                                                                                                                                                          each
                                                                                                                                                                         each        frame was
                                                                                                                                                                                    frame
                                                                                                                                                                                    frame              was 0.074
                                                                                                                                                                                                      was
                                                                                                                                                                                                     was        0.074 s,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.074
                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.074       s,   and the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            s, and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           s,   and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               and      the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      the
                                              average
                                               average
                                              average        detection
                                                              detection
                                                             detection           time
                                                                                  time
                                                                                time           for
                                                                                                for
                                                                                               for     each
                                                                                                        each
                                                                                                       each        frame
                                                                                                                    frame
                                                                                                                  frame          was
                                                                                                                                  was
                                                                                                                                 was      0.074
                                                                                                                                           0.074
                                                                                                                                          0.074      s.
                                                                                                                                                      s.
                                                                                                                                                     s.
                                               average
                                              average
                                               average
                                              average         detection
                                                             detection
                                                              detection
                                                             detection            time
                                                                                time
                                                                                 time
                                                                                time            for
                                                                                               for
                                                                                                for each
                                                                                               for      each
                                                                                                       each
                                                                                                        each        frame
                                                                                                                  frame
                                                                                                                    frame
                                                                                                                  frame           was
                                                                                                                                 was
                                                                                                                                 was       0.074
                                                                                                                                          0.074
                                                                                                                                           0.074 s.
                                                                                                                                  wasdatasets.
                                                                                                                                          0.074       s.
                                                                                                                                                     s.
                                         Table    3. Symbol        instances         in original              and      synthetic
                                                Table
                                                 Table3.
                                                 Table
                                                Table   3.Symbol
                                                        3.
                                                       3.   Symbolinstances
                                                           Symbol
                                                           Symbol   instancesin
                                                                    instances
                                                                   instances    inoriginal
                                                                               in
                                                                              in   original  and  syntheticdatasets.
                                                                                             andsynthetic
                                                                                   originaland
                                                                                  original  and  synthetic
                                                                                                 synthetic  datasets.
                                                                                                            datasets.
                                                                                                           datasets.
                                                Table
                                                 Table
                                                Table  3.
                                                       3.
                                                      3.   Symbol
                                                           Symbol
                                                          Symbol  instances
                                                                    instances
                                                                  instances   in
                                                                             inin original
                                                                                   original
                                                                                  original  and
                                                                                            and
                                                                                           and   synthetic
                                                                                                 synthetic
                                                                                                synthetic  datasets.
                                                                                                            datasets.
                                                                                                           datasets.
                                                 Table
                                                Table
                                                Table   3.
                                                       3.
                                                       3.  Symbol
                                                           Symbol
                                                           Symbol   instances
                                                                  instances
                                                                   instances   in
                                                                              in
                                                                               in  original
                                                                                  original
                                                                                  original   and
                                                                                            and
                                                                                            and  synthetic
                                                                                                synthetic
                                                                                                 synthetic  datasets.
                                                                                                           datasets.
                                                                                                           datasets.
                                                Table 3. Symbol instances in original and synthetic datasets.
        Symbol
        Symbol Name
                 Name                 OriginalSymbol
                                    Original  Symbol                             Original
                                                                              Original    Instances
                                                                                       Instances                                     Generated Symbol
                                                                                                                                   Generated   Symbol                                   Generated
                                                                                                                                                                                        Generated Instances
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Instances
          SymbolName
         Symbol
         Symbol
         Symbol     Name
                    Name
                   Name              Original
                                    Original
                                    Original
                                    Original   Symbol
                                              Symbol
                                              Symbol
                                              Symbol                           Original
                                                                              Original
                                                                              Original
                                                                              Original   Instances
                                                                                         Instances
                                                                                        Instances
                                                                                        Instances                                   Generated
                                                                                                                                   Generated
                                                                                                                                   Generated
                                                                                                                                   Generated    Symbol
                                                                                                                                                Symbol
                                                                                                                                               Symbol
                                                                                                                                               Symbol                                    GeneratedInstances
                                                                                                                                                                                         Generated
                                                                                                                                                                                         Generated
                                                                                                                                                                                         Generated   Instances
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Instances
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Instances
         Symbol
         Symbol     Name
                  Name              Original
                                    Original  Symbol
                                              Symbol                          Original
                                                                              Original   Instances
                                                                                       Instances                                   Generated
                                                                                                                                   Generated    Symbol
                                                                                                                                               Symbol                                    Generated
                                                                                                                                                                                         Generated   Instances
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Instances
         Symbol
         Symbol
         Symbol     Name
                  Name
                   Name
         Symbol Name                Original
                                    Original
                                    Original   Symbol
                                              Symbol
                                              Symbol
                                    Original Symbol                                      Instances
                                                                              OriginalInstances
                                                                              Original
                                                                              Original
                                                                              Original  Instances
                                                                                        Instances                                  Generated
                                                                                                                                   Generated
                                                                                                                                   Generated    Symbol
                                                                                                                                               Symbol
                                                                                                                                                Symbol
                                                                                                                                   Generated Symbol                                      Generated
                                                                                                                                                                                         Generated
                                                                                                                                                                                         Generated   Instances
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Instances
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Instances
                                                                                                                                                                                         Generated Instances
           Voltmeter
            Voltmeter
          Voltmeter
            Voltmeter
           Voltmeter                                                                  66
                                                                                       6666
                                                                                       66
                                                                                      66                                                                                                      600600
                                                                                                                                                                                                  600
                                                                                                                                                                                                  600
                                                                                                                                                                                                 600
            Voltmeter
           Voltmeter                                                                   66
                                                                                      66                                                                                                          600
                                                                                                                                                                                                 600
            Voltmeter
           Voltmeter
           Voltmeter
           Voltmeter                                                                   66
                                                                                      66
                                                                                       66
                                                                                      66                                                                                                          600
                                                                                                                                                                                                 600
                                                                                                                                                                                                 600
                                                                                                                                                                                                 600
               CTCT
                  CT
                 CT
                 CT                                                                            102
                                                                                                102
                                                                                                102
                                                                                               102
                                                                                                 102                                                                                                   569569
                                                                                                                                                                                                           569
                                                                                                                                                                                                           569
                                                                                                                                                                                                          569
                 CT
                 CT                                                                             102
                                                                                               102                                                                                                          569
                                                                                                                                                                                                            569
                 CT
                 CT
                 CT
                 CT                                                                             102
                                                                                               102
                                                                                               102
                                                                                               102                                                                                                           569
                                                                                                                                                                                                            569
                                                                                                                                                                                                            569
                                                                                                                                                                                                            569
        Circuit
         Circuit
         Circuit
         Circuit
        Circuit
         Circuit  Breaker
                   Breaker
                   Breaker
                   Breaker
                Breaker
                   Breaker                                                                     298
                                                                                                298
                                                                                                298
                                                                                               298
                                                                                               298298                                                                                                  610610
                                                                                                                                                                                                           610
                                                                                                                                                                                                           610
                                                                                                                                                                                                          610
                                                                                                                                                                                                          610
         Circuit
         Circuit
         Circuit   Breaker
                    Breaker                                                                     298                                                                                                        610
                                                                                                                                                                                                           610
         CircuitBreaker
         Circuit
         Circuit
         Circuit    Breaker
                   Breaker
                    Breaker
                   Breaker
                                                                                               298
                                                                                                298
                                                                                               298
                                                                                               298
                                                                                               298
                                                                                                                                                                                                          610
                                                                                                                                                                                                           610
                                                                                                                                                                                                          610
                                                                                                                                                                                                          610
                                                                                                                                                                                                          610
               Delta
                Delta
                Delta
               Delta                                                                           158
                                                                                                158
                                                                                                158
                                                                                               158                                                                                                        690
                                                                                                                                                                                                           690
                                                                                                                                                                                                           690
                                                                                                                                                                                                          690
                Delta
              Delta
               Delta                                                                            158
                                                                                               158158                                                                                                      690
                                                                                                                                                                                                       690690
                Delta
               Delta
          Transformer
                Delta
            Transformer
               Delta
           Transformer
           Transformer                                                                          158
                                                                                               158
                                                                                                89
                                                                                               158
                                                                                                 89
                                                                                               158
                                                                                                 89
                                                                                                89                                                                                                         690
                                                                                                                                                                                                          690
                                                                                                                                                                                                          577
                                                                                                                                                                                                          690
                                                                                                                                                                                                           577
                                                                                                                                                                                                          690
                                                                                                                                                                                                           577
                                                                                                                                                                                                          577
           Transformer
           Transformer
          Transformer
         Transformer                                                                            89
                                                                                                 89
                                                                                                89                                                                                                        577
                                                                                                                                                                                                           577
                                                                                                                                                                                                       577577
           Transformer
           Transformer
           Transformer
           Transformer                                                                           8989
                                                                                                89
                                                                                                89
                                                                                                89                                                                                                         577
                                                                                                                                                                                                          577
                                                                                                                                                                                                          577
                                                                                                                                                                                                          577
           Inductance
             Inductance
             Inductance
            Inductance                                                                          35
                                                                                                 35
                                                                                                 35
                                                                                                35                                                                                                        687
                                                                                                                                                                                                           687
                                                                                                                                                                                                           687
                                                                                                                                                                                                          687
             Inductance
           Inductance                                                                            35
                                                                                                35                                                                                                         687
             Inductance
            Inductance
          Inductance
            Inductance
            Inductance                                                                           35
                                                                                                35
                                                                                                3535
                                                                                                35                                                                                                     687687
                                                                                                                                                                                                           687
                                                                                                                                                                                                          687
                                                                                                                                                                                                          687
                                                                                                                                                                                                          687
            Generator
              Generator
              Generator
             Generator                                                                         309
                                                                                                309
                                                                                                309
                                                                                               309                                                                                                        689
                                                                                                                                                                                                           689
                                                                                                                                                                                                           689
                                                                                                                                                                                                          689
              Generator
             Generator                                                                          309
                                                                                               309                                                                                                         689
                                                                                                                                                                                                          689
              Generator
             Generator
             Generator
             Generator
           Generator                                                                            309
                                                                                               309
                                                                                               309
                                                                                               309309                                                                                                      689
                                                                                                                                                                                                       689689
                                                                                                                                                                                                          689
                                                                                                                                                                                                          689
               OCB
                 OCB
                OCB
                OCB                                                                             55
                                                                                                 55
                                                                                                 55
                                                                                                55                                                                                                        580
                                                                                                                                                                                                           580
                                                                                                                                                                                                           580
                                                                                                                                                                                                          580
                OCB
                OCB                                                                              55
                                                                                                55                                                                                                         580
                                                                                                                                                                                                          580
                OCB
                OCB
                OCB
                OCB                                                                              55
                                                                                                55
                                                                                                55
                                                                                                55                                                                                                         580
                                                                                                                                                                                                          580
                                                                                                                                                                                                          580
                                                                                                                                                                                                          580
               Relay
                Relay
                Relay
               Relay                                                                            68
                                                                                                 68
                                                                                                 68
                                                                                                68                                                                                                        489
                                                                                                                                                                                                           489
                                                                                                                                                                                                           489
                                                                                                                                                                                                          489
                Relay
               Relay                                                                             68
                                                                                                68                                                                                                         489
                                                                                                                                                                                                          489
                Relay
               Relay
                Relay
               Relay                                                                             68
                                                                                                68
                                                                                                68
                                                                                                68                                                                                                         489
                                                                                                                                                                                                          489
                                                                                                                                                                                                          489
                                                                                                                                                                                                          489
                CT
                CT
                CT                                                                    102
                                                                                      102
                                                                                       102                                                                                         569
                                                                                                                                                                                   569
                                                                                                                                                                                    569

        Circuit
        CircuitBreaker
        Circuit Breaker
                Breaker                                                               298
                                                                                      298
                                                                                       298                                                                                         610
                                                                                                                                                                                   610
                                                                                                                                                                                    610
Appl. Sci. 2023,Delta
                Delta
                Delta
                13, 8816                                                              158
                                                                                      158
                                                                                       158                                                                                         690
                                                                                                                                                                                   690
                                                                                                                                                                                    690 21 of 26
          Transformer
          Transformer
          Transformer                                                                 89
                                                                                       89
                                                                                       89                                                                                          577
                                                                                                                                                                                   577
                                                                                                                                                                                    577
           Inductance
            Inductance
            Inductance                                                                 35
                                                                                       35
                                                                                        35                                                                                         687
                                                                                                                                                                                   687
                                                                                                                                                                                    687
                                        Table 3. Cont.

      SymbolGenerator
             Generator
             Generator
                  Name                     Original Symbol                          309
                                                                                    309
                                                                                     309Instances
                                                                               Original                                  Generated Symbol                                    689
                                                                                                                                                                             689
                                                                                                                                                                              689
                                                                                                                                                                  Generated Instances
     Appl.
    Appl.
    Appl.
     Appl.
    Appl.  Sci.
          Sci.
           Sci.
            Sci.
          Sci.   2023,
                2023,
                2023,   13,
                 2023,13,
                2023,   13,xxxxxx
                       13,
                      13,         FOR
                                 FOR   PEERREVIEW
                                   FORPEER
                                xFOR
                                  FOR  PEER
                                      PEER
                                      PEER  REVIEW
                                            REVIEW
                                             REVIEW
                                           REVIEW                                                                                                                                    22
                                                                                                                                                                                     2222
                                                                                                                                                                                       22of
                                                                                                                                                                                      22   of
                                                                                                                                                                                           of27
                                                                                                                                                                                          of
                                                                                                                                                                                          of   27
                                                                                                                                                                                              27
                                                                                                                                                                                               27
                                                                                                                                                                                              27
    Appl.
     Appl.
    Appl.
    Appl.  Sci.
           Sci.
          Sci.
           Sci.  2023,
                 2023,
                2023,
                 2023, 13,
                        13,
                       13,
                       13,     xx FOR
                                  FOR
                                 FOR
                                  FOR  PEER
                                       PEER
                                      PEER
                                       PEER REVIEW
                                            REVIEW
                                            REVIEW
                                            REVIEW                                                                                                                                    22
                                                                                                                                                                                       22
                                                                                                                                                                                      22
                                                                                                                                                                                      22   of
                                                                                                                                                                                           of
                                                                                                                                                                                          of
                                                                                                                                                                                           of  27
                                                                                                                                                                                               27
                                                                                                                                                                                              27
                                                                                                                                                                                               27
    Appl.
     Appl.Sci.
    Appl.  Sci.
           Sci.
             OCB OCB
                 OCB
                2023,
                 2023,
                2023,
                  OCB 13,
                        13,xxxFOR
                       13,        FORPEER
                                  FOR  PEERREVIEW
                                      PEER  REVIEW
                                            REVIEW                                     55
                                                                                       55
                                                                                        5555                                                                             580580
                                                                                                                                                                             580
                                                                                                                                                                              580 22  22   of 27
                                                                                                                                                                                       22 of
                                                                                                                                                                                          of   27
                                                                                                                                                                                              27

              Relay
              Relay
            Relay
               Relay                                                                   68
                                                                                       68
                                                                                        6868                                                                                  489489
                                                                                                                                                                                 489
                                                                                                                                                                                  489
             Switch
            Switch
             Switch
           Switch
             Switch
             Switch
             Switch                                                                    425
                                                                                      425
                                                                                      425
                                                                                      425425
                                                                                       425
                                                                                      425                                                                                         468
                                                                                                                                                                              468468
                                                                                                                                                                                 468
                                                                                                                                                                                 468
                                                                                                                                                                                  468
                                                                                                                                                                                 468
              Switch
             Switch
             Switch                                                                    425
                                                                                      425
                                                                                      425                                                                                         468
                                                                                                                                                                                 468
                                                                                                                                                                                 468
              Motor
             Motor
              Motor
            Motor
             Motor
              Motor
             Motor                                                                    797979
                                                                                       79
                                                                                       79
                                                                                        79
                                                                                       79                                                                                         560
                                                                                                                                                                              560560
                                                                                                                                                                                 560
                                                                                                                                                                                 560
                                                                                                                                                                                  560
                                                                                                                                                                                 560
              Motor
             Motor
              Motor                                                                     79
                                                                                       79
                                                                                       79                                                                                         560
                                                                                                                                                                                 560
                                                                                                                                                                                 560
     Air
     Air
     Air
     Air
     Air   Circuit
      AirCircuit
     Air  Circuit
          Circuit
          Circuit
          Circuit
          Circuit    Breaker
                    Breaker
                    Breaker
                    Breaker
                    Breaker
                 Breaker
                    Breaker                                                            155
                                                                                      155
                                                                                      155
                                                                                      155
                                                                                       155
                                                                                      155155                                                                                      798
                                                                                                                                                                              798798
                                                                                                                                                                                 798
                                                                                                                                                                                 798
                                                                                                                                                                                  798
                                                                                                                                                                                 798
      AirCircuit
     Air
      Air  CircuitBreaker
           Circuit   Breaker
                     Breaker                                                           155
                                                                                      155
                                                                                      155                                                                                         798
                                                                                                                                                                                 798
                                                                                                                                                                                 798
       Iron-CoreInductor
     Iron-Core
      Iron-Core
     Iron-Core
      Iron-Core     Inductor
                   Inductor
                  Inductor
                   Inductor                                                             39
                                                                                       39
                                                                                       39
                                                                                       39
                                                                                       39                                                                                         789
                                                                                                                                                                                 789
                                                                                                                                                                                 789
                                                                                                                                                                                 789
                                                                                                                                                                                 789
      Iron-Core
     Iron-Core
     Iron-Core     Inductor
               Inductor
       Iron-Core
      Iron-Core   Inductor
                    Inductor
                   Inductor                                                             39
                                                                                        3939
                                                                                       39
                                                                                       39                                                                                         789
                                                                                                                                                                              789789
                                                                                                                                                                                  789
                                                                                                                                                                                 789
         Draw-Out
        Draw-Out
         Draw-Out
        Draw-Out
         Draw-Out
         Draw-Out      Fuse
                      Fuse
                      Fuse
                      Fuse
                      Fuse
                      Fuse                                                              20
                                                                                       20
                                                                                       20
                                                                                       20
                                                                                        20
                                                                                       20                                                                                         780
                                                                                                                                                                                 780
                                                                                                                                                                                 780
                                                                                                                                                                                 780
                                                                                                                                                                                  780
                                                                                                                                                                                 780
         Draw-Out
        Draw-Out
        Draw-Out
         Draw-Out Fuse Fuse
                      Fuse
                      Fuse                                                              2020
                                                                                       20
                                                                                       20                                                                                         780
                                                                                                                                                                              780780
                                                                                                                                                                                 780
             Ground
            Ground
             Ground
            Ground
             Ground
             Ground                                                                     25
                                                                                       25
                                                                                       25
                                                                                       25
                                                                                        25
                                                                                       25                                                                                         670
                                                                                                                                                                                 670
                                                                                                                                                                                 670
                                                                                                                                                                                 670
                                                                                                                                                                                  670
                                                                                                                                                                                 670
             Ground
            Ground
             Ground
           Ground                                                                       2525
                                                                                       25
                                                                                       25                                                                                         670
                                                                                                                                                                              670670
                                                                                                                                                                                 670
              Diode
             Diode
              Diode
             Diode
              Diode                                                                     30
                                                                                       30
                                                                                       30
                                                                                       30
                                                                                       30                                                                                         633
                                                                                                                                                                                 633
                                                                                                                                                                                 633
                                                                                                                                                                                 633
                                                                                                                                                                                 633
              Diode
             Diode
              Diode
              Diode
            Diode                                                                       30
                                                                                       30
                                                                                        3030
                                                                                       30                                                                                         633
                                                                                                                                                                              633633
                                                                                                                                                                                  633
                                                                                                                                                                                 633

                                                    The
                                                    The     modelwas
                                                     Themodel
                                                   The
                                                    The
                                                   The      model
                                                           model
                                                            model
                                                           model     was
                                                                     was
                                                                     was      dividedinto
                                                                      wasdivided
                                                                     was      divided
                                                                             divided
                                                                              divided
                                                                             divided          intotwo
                                                                                             into
                                                                                            into
                                                                                             into
                                                                                            into       twogroups
                                                                                                       two
                                                                                                      two
                                                                                                       two
                                                                                                      two       groupsin
                                                                                                                groups
                                                                                                               groups
                                                                                                                groups
                                                                                                                groups       in
                                                                                                                            in
                                                                                                                            ininthis
                                                                                                                             in        thisresearch,
                                                                                                                                      this
                                                                                                                                     this
                                                                                                                                      this
                                                                                                                                     this     research,each
                                                                                                                                              research,
                                                                                                                                             research,
                                                                                                                                              research,
                                                                                                                                             research,             eachwith
                                                                                                                                                                   each
                                                                                                                                                                  each
                                                                                                                                                                   each
                                                                                                                                                                  each     withits
                                                                                                                                                                          with
                                                                                                                                                                          with
                                                                                                                                                                          with
                                                                                                                                                                          with    its
                                                                                                                                                                                 its    owndataset.
                                                                                                                                                                                   itsown
                                                                                                                                                                                  its
                                                                                                                                                                                 its   own
                                                                                                                                                                                      own
                                                                                                                                                                                        own
                                                                                                                                                                                       own         dataset.
                                                                                                                                                                                                  dataset.
                                                                                                                                                                                                 dataset.
                                                                                                                                                                                                   dataset.
                                                                                                                                                                                                  dataset.
                                                    Themodel
                                                   The
                                                    The     modelwas
                                                           model      wasdivided
                                                                     was      dividedinto
                                                                              divided        intotwo
                                                                                             into      twogroups
                                                                                                      two       groupsin
                                                                                                                groups       inthis
                                                                                                                             in               research,each
                                                                                                                                      thisresearch,
                                                                                                                                      this    research,                   withits
                                                                                                                                                                   eachwith
                                                                                                                                                                   each   with    itsown
                                                                                                                                                                                  its   owndataset.
                                                                                                                                                                                       own         dataset.
                                                                                                                                                                                                  dataset.
                                              The
                                            TheThesecond
                                             The
                                            The
                                             The
                                            The     second
                                                     modelgroup
                                                   second
                                                  second
                                                    second
                                                   second      group
                                                               group
                                                              group
                                                               group      used
                                                                          used
                                                                was divided
                                                               group     used
                                                                          used
                                                                         used
                                                                          used       both
                                                                                   both
                                                                                      intothe
                                                                                    both
                                                                                   both
                                                                                    both
                                                                                   both       the
                                                                                             the
                                                                                            the
                                                                                             the
                                                                                            thetwo    real
                                                                                                    real
                                                                                                     real
                                                                                                    real
                                                                                                     real
                                                                                                        groups
                                                                                                     real      images
                                                                                                             images
                                                                                                              images
                                                                                                             images
                                                                                                              images
                                                                                                             images         and
                                                                                                                       in and
                                                                                                                           and
                                                                                                                           and
                                                                                                                            and
                                                                                                                           this
                                                                                                                           and           the
                                                                                                                                       the
                                                                                                                                        the
                                                                                                                                       the
                                                                                                                                        the    DCGAN
                                                                                                                                              DCGAN
                                                                                                                                              DCGAN
                                                                                                                                       research,
                                                                                                                                        the   DCGAN
                                                                                                                                               DCGAN
                                                                                                                                              DCGAN       each      and
                                                                                                                                                                  and
                                                                                                                                                                   and
                                                                                                                                                                  and
                                                                                                                                                                   and
                                                                                                                                                                     with
                                                                                                                                                                   and    LSGAN
                                                                                                                                                                         LSGAN
                                                                                                                                                                         LSGAN
                                                                                                                                                                         LSGAN
                                                                                                                                                                          LSGAN
                                                                                                                                                                            its own
                                                                                                                                                                         LSGAN         synthetic
                                                                                                                                                                                         dataset.im-
                                                                                                                                                                                      synthetic
                                                                                                                                                                                       synthetic
                                                                                                                                                                                      synthetic
                                                                                                                                                                                       synthetic
                                                                                                                                                                                      synthetic           im-
                                                                                                                                                                                                         im-
                                                                                                                                                                                                        im-
                                                                                                                                                                                                         im-
                                                                                                                                                                                                        im-
                                             The
                                            The
                                             The    second
                                                  second
                                                   second      group
                                                              group
                                                               group      usedboth
                                                                         used
                                                                          used      both
                                                                                    both      the
                                                                                            the
                                                                                             the     real
                                                                                                    real
                                                                                                     real     images
                                                                                                             images
                                                                                                              images        andthe
                                                                                                                           and
                                                                                                                           and                 DCGAN
                                                                                                                                         theDCGAN
                                                                                                                                        the   DCGAN                and
                                                                                                                                                                  and
                                                                                                                                                                   and    LSGAN
                                                                                                                                                                         LSGAN
                                                                                                                                                                         LSGAN         synthetic
                                                                                                                                                                                      synthetic
                                                                                                                                                                                       synthetic         im-
                                                                                                                                                                                                        im-
                                                                                                                                                                                                         im-
                                              ages,as
                                        Theages,
                                             ages,
                                            ages,
                                             second   asopposed
                                                      as
                                                     as    opposed
                                                          opposed
                                                         opposed      to
                                                                      totothe
                                                                        to  the
                                                                           the      firstreal
                                                                             thefirst
                                                                                   first
                                                                                  first     group,
                                                                                          group,
                                                                                           group,
                                                                                           group,          which
                                                                                                         which
                                                                                                          which
                                                                                                         which   andonlyonly
                                                                                                                       only
                                                                                                                      only         employed
                                                                                                                                employed
                                                                                                                                   employed
                                                                                                                                 employed              actual
                                                                                                                                                      actual
                                                                                                                                                      actual
                                                                                                                                                      actual           images.
                                                                                                                                                                     images.
                                                                                                                                                                      images.
                                                                                                                                                                     images.      Table44444displays
                                                                                                                                                                                 Table
                                                                                                                                                                                 Table
                                                                                                                                                                                 Table            displays
                                                                                                                                                                                                 displays
                                                                                                                                                                                                displays
                                            ages,
                                             ages,
                                            ages,
                                             ages,
                                             ages,
                                              the
                                            the
                                             the      asgroup
                                                     as
                                                      as
                                                     as
                                                     as
                                                   training
                                                 training
                                                  training
                                                          opposed
                                                          opposed
                                                         opposed
                                                           opposed
                                                          opposed used to
                                                                      totoboth
                                                                        to
                                                                       to
                                                                achievement
                                                               achievement
                                                                achievement
                                                                           the
                                                                            the
                                                                           the
                                                                            the    the
                                                                                  first
                                                                                   first
                                                                            thefirstfirst
                                                                                   first   group,
                                                                                           group,
                                                                                           group,
                                                                                            group,
                                                                                           group,
                                                                                        results.
                                                                                      results.
                                                                                       results.
                                                                                                  images  which
                                                                                                          which
                                                                                                         which
                                                                                                          which
                                                                                                          which
                                                                                                       Additionally,
                                                                                                     Additionally,
                                                                                                      Additionally,
                                                                                                                         the DCGAN
                                                                                                                       only
                                                                                                                       only
                                                                                                                      only
                                                                                                                        only
                                                                                                                       only       employed
                                                                                                                                   employed
                                                                                                                                 employed
                                                                                                                                   employed
                                                                                                                                   employed
                                                                                                                                     the
                                                                                                                                   the
                                                                                                                                    the      Group
                                                                                                                                           Group
                                                                                                                                            Group
                                                                                                                                                   andactual
                                                                                                                                                       actual
                                                                                                                                                      actual
                                                                                                                                                       actual
                                                                                                                                                      actual
                                                                                                                                                        2  2 2
                                                                                                                                                              LSGAN   images.
                                                                                                                                                                 (original
                                                                                                                                                                (original
                                                                                                                                                                           synthetic
                                                                                                                                                                     images.
                                                                                                                                                                      images.
                                                                                                                                                                     images.
                                                                                                                                                                       images.
                                                                                                                                                               (original          Tableimages,
                                                                                                                                                                                 Table
                                                                                                                                                                                  Table
                                                                                                                                                                                 Table
                                                                                                                                                                                 Table
                                                                                                                                                                              pictures,
                                                                                                                                                                             pictures,
                                                                                                                                                                             pictures,
                                                                                                                                                                                                displays
                                                                                                                                                                                                 displays
                                                                                                                                                                                           4444DCGAN,
                                                                                                                                                                                                displays
                                                                                                                                                                                                  displays
                                                                                                                                                                                                 displays
                                                                                                                                                                                                DCGAN,
                                                                                                                                                                                               DCGAN,
                                            the
                                        as opposed
                                            the
                                             the
                                            the  training
                                                  training
                                                  training     achievement
                                                          to the   first group,results.
                                                               achievement
                                                                achievement           results.
                                                                                       results.      Additionally,
                                                                                        which Additionally,
                                                                                       results.       only      employed
                                                                                                      Additionally,
                                                                                                       Additionally,               the
                                                                                                                                   the
                                                                                                                                    the    Group
                                                                                                                                        actual
                                                                                                                                            Group
                                                                                                                                            Group   images.    (original
                                                                                                                                                        222222(original       4 displays
                                                                                                                                                                      Tablepictures,
                                                                                                                                                               (original
                                                                                                                                                                (original    pictures,
                                                                                                                                                                             pictures,
                                                                                                                                                                             pictures,         DCGAN,
                                                                                                                                                                                                   the
                                                                                                                                                                                               DCGAN,
                                                                                                                                                                                               DCGAN,
                                              andtraining
                                             the
                                             the
                                            and
                                             and
                                            and
                                        training
                                             and
                                            and
                                                   training
                                                  training
                                                    LSGAN)
                                                  LSGAN)
                                                   LSGAN)
                                                  LSGAN)
                                                    achievement
                                                    LSGAN)
                                                   LSGAN)
                                                               achievement
                                                                achievement
                                                                achievement
                                                                  dataset
                                                                 dataset
                                                                  dataset
                                                                 dataset
                                                                  dataset
                                                                 dataset
                                                                                       results.
                                                                                achieved
                                                                              achieved
                                                                               achieved
                                                                              achieved
                                                                         results.
                                                                               achieved
                                                                               achieved
                                                                                        results.  theAdditionally,
                                                                                                the
                                                                                                 the
                                                                                                the
                                                                                       Additionally,
                                                                                                 the
                                                                                                the
                                                                                                       Additionally,
                                                                                                         highest
                                                                                                        highest
                                                                                                         highest
                                                                                                        highest
                                                                                                         highest
                                                                                                        highest   the    mAP
                                                                                                                       mAP
                                                                                                                        mAP
                                                                                                                       mAP
                                                                                                                         Group
                                                                                                                         mAP
                                                                                                                        mAP
                                                                                                                                   the
                                                                                                                                    the
                                                                                                                                    the
                                                                                                                                    ofof
                                                                                                                                      of
                                                                                                                                           Group
                                                                                                                                             Group
                                                                                                                                            approximately
                                                                                                                                      ofapproximately
                                                                                                                                     of
                                                                                                                                     of
                                                                                                                                            Group
                                                                                                                                           approximately
                                                                                                                                           approximately
                                                                                                                                           2 (original
                                                                                                                                            approximately
                                                                                                                                           approximately
                                                                                                                                                                (original
                                                                                                                                                                (original    pictures,
                                                                                                                                                                         99.83%
                                                                                                                                                                        99.83%
                                                                                                                                                                        99.83%
                                                                                                                                                                        99.83%
                                                                                                                                                                  pictures,
                                                                                                                                                                        99.83%
                                                                                                                                                                              pictures,
                                                                                                                                                                              DCGAN,
                                                                                                                                                                         99.83%      withan
                                                                                                                                                                                    with
                                                                                                                                                                                    with
                                                                                                                                                                                    with
                                                                                                                                                                                    with
                                                                                                                                                                                    with     an
                                                                                                                                                                                               DCGAN,
                                                                                                                                                                                                DCGAN,
                                                                                                                                                                                               DCGAN,
                                                                                                                                                                                               an
                                                                                                                                                                                               an
                                                                                                                                                                                               an
                                                                                                                                                                                               an     IoUof
                                                                                                                                                                                                    IoU
                                                                                                                                                                                                     IoU
                                                                                                                                                                                                    IoU
                                                                                                                                                                                                  andIoU
                                                                                                                                                                                                    IoU     of
                                                                                                                                                                                                           of
                                                                                                                                                                                                           of
                                                                                                                                                                                                           of
                                                                                                                                                                                                           of
                                             andLSGAN)
                                            and
                                             and    LSGAN)dataset
                                                   LSGAN)         datasetachieved
                                                                  dataset       achievedthe
                                                                               achieved                  highestmAP
                                                                                                 thehighest
                                                                                                 the     highest         mAPof
                                                                                                                        mAP           ofapproximately
                                                                                                                                     of     approximately99.83%
                                                                                                                                           approximately                 99.83%with
                                                                                                                                                                        99.83%      withan
                                                                                                                                                                                    with       anIoU
                                                                                                                                                                                               an    IoUof
                                                                                                                                                                                                     IoU    of
                                                                                                                                                                                                           of
                                             73.11%
                                        LSGAN)73.11%
                                            73.11%       for
                                                       for
                                                         for
                                                     dataset  YOLO
                                                             YOLO
                                                              YOLO
                                                                achieved V5.
                                                                        V5.
                                                                         V5.   AsAs
                                                                                As
                                                                                the  aaa  consequence,
                                                                                         consequence,
                                                                                         consequence,                Table
                                                                                                                    Table
                                                                                                                     Table    4  4 4   shows
                                                                                                                                     shows
                                                                                                                                      shows         that
                                                                                                                                                  that
                                                                                                                                                   that        combining
                                                                                                                                                             combining
                                                                                                                                                              combining         real
                                                                                                                                                                               real
                                                                                                                                                                               real     and
                                                                                                                                                                                      and
                                                                                                                                                                                       and        fake
                                                                                                                                                                                                fake
                                                                                                                                                                                                 fake     im-
                                                                                                                                                                                                        im-
                                                                                                                                                                                                         im-
                                            73.11%
                                             73.11%
                                            73.11%
                                             73.11%
                                            73.11%
                                             73.11%
                                                        for
                                                         for
                                                        for
                                                        for
                                                        for
                                                             YOLO
                                                              YOLO
                                                              YOLO
                                                              YOLO
                                                         forYOLO
                                                              YOLO
                                                                        V5.
                                                                         V5.
                                                                         V5.
                                                                         V5.As
                                                                        V5.
                                                                         V5.    Asaaaahighest
                                                                               As
                                                                                As
                                                                                As
                                                                                As
                                                                                         consequence,
                                                                                      aaconsequence,
                                                                                          consequence,
                                                                                         consequence,
                                                                                         consequence,
                                                                                                     mAP ofTable
                                                                                          consequence,               approximately
                                                                                                                    Table
                                                                                                                     Table
                                                                                                                     Table
                                                                                                                     Table
                                                                                                                     Table
                                                                                                                                     shows
                                                                                                                              444444shows
                                                                                                                                      shows
                                                                                                                                      shows
                                                                                                                                       showsthat
                                                                                                                                      shows
                                                                                                                                                    99.83%
                                                                                                                                                  that
                                                                                                                                                   that
                                                                                                                                                  that
                                                                                                                                                   that
                                                                                                                                                   that
                                                                                                                                                                    with an real
                                                                                                                                                              combining
                                                                                                                                                               combining
                                                                                                                                                              combining
                                                                                                                                                               combining
                                                                                                                                                              combining
                                                                                                                                                              combining
                                                                                                                                                                               IoU
                                                                                                                                                                               real
                                                                                                                                                                                real
                                                                                                                                                                               real
                                                                                                                                                                                realand
                                                                                                                                                                               real
                                                                                                                                                                                       of
                                                                                                                                                                                       and
                                                                                                                                                                                        and
                                                                                                                                                                                       and
                                                                                                                                                                                        and
                                                                                                                                                                                       and
                                                                                                                                                                                           73.11%
                                                                                                                                                                                                fake
                                                                                                                                                                                                 fake
                                                                                                                                                                                                 fake
                                                                                                                                                                                                fake
                                                                                                                                                                                                 fake
                                                                                                                                                                                                        im-
                                                                                                                                                                                                        im-
                                                                                                                                                                                                  fakeim-im-
                                                                                                                                                                                                         im-
                                                                                                                                                                                                         im-
                                              ages
                                        for ages
                                             ages
                                            YOLO
                                            ages
                                            ages     strengthened
                                                   strengthened
                                                    strengthened
                                                       V5.
                                                   strengthenedAs
                                                    strengthened    a     all
                                                                         all
                                                                         all
                                                                       consequence,
                                                                         all
                                                                         all    models
                                                                              models
                                                                               models
                                                                              models
                                                                               models         and
                                                                                            and
                                                                                             and
                                                                                            and
                                                                                            and      raised
                                                                                                      raised
                                                                                                  Tableraised
                                                                                                     raised
                                                                                                     raised    4    the
                                                                                                                  the
                                                                                                                   the
                                                                                                                  shows
                                                                                                                  the
                                                                                                                  the     percentages
                                                                                                                         percentages
                                                                                                                         percentages
                                                                                                                                 that
                                                                                                                         percentages
                                                                                                                         percentages              ofof
                                                                                                                                                   of
                                                                                                                                            combining
                                                                                                                                                  of
                                                                                                                                                   of IoU
                                                                                                                                                        IoU
                                                                                                                                                       IoU
                                                                                                                                                       IoUIoU       and
                                                                                                                                                                  and
                                                                                                                                                                   and
                                                                                                                                                                    real
                                                                                                                                                                  and
                                                                                                                                                                   and    mAP.
                                                                                                                                                                         mAP.
                                                                                                                                                                         mAP.
                                                                                                                                                                          and
                                                                                                                                                                         mAP.
                                                                                                                                                                         mAP.    InIn
                                                                                                                                                                                  In
                                                                                                                                                                                 fake
                                                                                                                                                                                 In
                                                                                                                                                                                  In    this
                                                                                                                                                                                      this
                                                                                                                                                                                       this
                                                                                                                                                                                      this
                                                                                                                                                                                      this     research,
                                                                                                                                                                                          imagesresearch,
                                                                                                                                                                                                research,
                                                                                                                                                                                               research,
                                                                                                                                                                                               research,
                                             ages
                                            ages
                                             ages
                                             ages    strengthened
                                                   strengthened
                                                     strengthened
                                                    strengthened          all
                                                                         all   models
                                                                              models
                                                                          allreal
                                                                         all    models
                                                                               models        and
                                                                                            and
                                                                                             and
                                                                                            and       raised
                                                                                                     raised
                                                                                                       raisedas
                                                                                                      raised       the
                                                                                                                  the
                                                                                                                    the
                                                                                                                   the    percentages
                                                                                                                         percentages
                                                                                                                          percentages
                                                                                                                         percentages              ofof
                                                                                                                                                   of    IoU
                                                                                                                                                       IoU
                                                                                                                                                    of IoUIoU      and
                                                                                                                                                                  and
                                                                                                                                                                   and
                                                                                                                                                                   and   mAP.
                                                                                                                                                                         mAP.
                                                                                                                                                                          mAP. In
                                                                                                                                                                         mAP.    InIn
                                                                                                                                                                                   In  this
                                                                                                                                                                                      this
                                                                                                                                                                                       this
                                                                                                                                                                                       this     research,
                                                                                                                                                                                               research,
                                                                                                                                                                                                research,
                                                                                                                                                                                                research,
                                              theboundary
                                            the
                                             the
                                        strengthened
                                            the
                                            the    boundary
                                                  boundary
                                                 boundary
                                                  boundary         ofthe
                                                                  of
                                                                  of
                                                             all models
                                                                  of
                                                                  of    the
                                                                       the
                                                                      the
                                                                      the      real
                                                                              real
                                                                              real     object
                                                                               andobject
                                                                             real       raisedserved
                                                                                      object
                                                                                      object
                                                                                      object        served
                                                                                                   served
                                                                                                      the percentages
                                                                                                  served
                                                                                                   served         as
                                                                                                                 as
                                                                                                                 as
                                                                                                                 as     the
                                                                                                                      the
                                                                                                                       the
                                                                                                                      the
                                                                                                                      the     ground
                                                                                                                            ground
                                                                                                                             ground
                                                                                                                            ground
                                                                                                                             ground              truth
                                                                                                                                               truth
                                                                                                                                          of IoUtruth
                                                                                                                                               truth
                                                                                                                                               truth  and    to
                                                                                                                                                             to
                                                                                                                                                             to     determine
                                                                                                                                                               todetermine
                                                                                                                                                              to   determine
                                                                                                                                                                  mAP.
                                                                                                                                                                  determineIn this
                                                                                                                                                                   determine        how
                                                                                                                                                                                   how
                                                                                                                                                                                    how
                                                                                                                                                                                   how
                                                                                                                                                                                   how     muchmuch
                                                                                                                                                                                             much
                                                                                                                                                                                        research,
                                                                                                                                                                                            much
                                                                                                                                                                                            much         our
                                                                                                                                                                                                        our
                                                                                                                                                                                                         our
                                                                                                                                                                                                        our
                                                                                                                                                                                                        our
                                             the
                                            the
                                             the
                                             the  boundary
                                                 boundary
                                                   boundary
                                                  boundary         of
                                                                  of
                                                                   of
                                                                  of   the
                                                                      the
                                                                       the
                                                                       the    real
                                                                             real
                                                                               real
                                                                              real     object
                                                                                     object
                                                                                       object
                                                                                      object       served
                                                                                                  served
                                                                                                   served
                                                                                                   served         as
                                                                                                                 as
                                                                                                                  as
                                                                                                                 as    the
                                                                                                                      the
                                                                                                                       the
                                                                                                                       the   ground
                                                                                                                            ground
                                                                                                                              ground
                                                                                                                             ground             truth
                                                                                                                                               truth
                                                                                                                                                truth
                                                                                                                                                truth         to
                                                                                                                                                             to
                                                                                                                                                              to
                                                                                                                                                              to   determine
                                                                                                                                                                  determine
                                                                                                                                                                    determine
                                                                                                                                                                   determine        how
                                                                                                                                                                                   how
                                                                                                                                                                                    how
                                                                                                                                                                                    how    muchmuch
                                                                                                                                                                                               much
                                                                                                                                                                                             much        our
                                                                                                                                                                                                        our
                                                                                                                                                                                                         our
                                                                                                                                                                                                        our
                                              predicted
                                        the predicted
                                             predicted
                                             boundary
                                            predicted
                                            predicted        border
                                                            border
                                                            border
                                                             of  the
                                                            border
                                                            border      overlapped
                                                                      overlapped
                                                                       overlapped
                                                                       real    object
                                                                      overlapped
                                                                       overlapped             with
                                                                                            with
                                                                                             with
                                                                                           served
                                                                                            with
                                                                                             with        it.
                                                                                                       it.
                                                                                                        it.
                                                                                                       it.as
                                                                                                        it.     the    ground             truth    to     determine          how     much          our
                                             predicted
                                            predicted
                                             predictedborder
                                             predicted       border     overlapped
                                                             borderoverlapped
                                                            border      overlappedwith
                                                                       overlapped             with
                                                                                              withit.
                                                                                             with       it.
                                                                                                         it.
                                                                                                        it.
                                        predicted border overlapped with it.
                                            Table
                                           Table
                                             Table4.
                                            Table
                                           Table
                                            Table   4.
                                                    4.Training
                                                   4.
                                                   4.
                                                    4. Training
                                                        Trainingperformance
                                                       Training
                                                      Training
                                                       Training  performance
                                                                 performanceresults
                                                                performance
                                                                performance
                                                                 performance  results
                                                                             results
                                                                            results
                                                                             results  obtained
                                                                                       obtainedusing
                                                                              resultsobtained
                                                                                      obtained
                                                                                     obtained
                                                                                      obtained  using
                                                                                               using
                                                                                               using  YOLO
                                                                                                      YOLOV5.
                                                                                                usingYOLO
                                                                                                using YOLO
                                                                                                     YOLO
                                                                                                      YOLO  V5.
                                                                                                           V5.
                                                                                                            V5.
                                                                                                           V5.
                                                                                                           V5.
                                            Table
                                            Table
                                           Table
                                            Table4.
                                            Table  4.
                                                    4.
                                                    4.Training
                                                   4.  Training
                                                       Training
                                                       Training performance
                                                                 performance
                                                       Trainingperformance
                                                                 performanceresults
                                                                performance  results
                                                                             results
                                                                             results  obtained
                                                                                      obtained
                                                                              resultsobtained
                                                                                      obtained using
                                                                                                using YOLO
                                                                                                      YOLO
                                                                                                usingYOLO
                                                                                      obtainedusing
                                                                                               using       V5.
                                                                                                           V5.
                                                                                                      YOLOV5.
                                                                                                      YOLO V5.
                                                                                                           V5.
                                        Table 4. Training   performance
                                                      Original
                                                    Original     Datasetresults obtained using YOLO V5.Augmented
                                                                Dataset                                   AugmentedDataset
                                                                                                                   Dataset
                                                      Original    Dataset
                                                       OriginalDataset
                                                      Original
                                                      Original     Dataset
                                                                  Dataset                                            Augmented      Dataset
                                                                                                                      AugmentedDataset
                                                                                                                    Augmented
                                                                                                                     Augmented       Dataset
                                                                                                                                    Dataset
               Symbol
              Symbol
               Symbol
              Symbol                                   Original
                                                      Original    Dataset
                                                       OriginalDataset
                                                      Original     Dataset
                                                                  Dataset                                            Augmented
                                                                                                                    Augmented        Dataset
                                                                                                                      AugmentedDataset
                                                                                                                     Augmented       Dataset
                                                                                                                                    Dataset
               Symbol
               Symbol
              Symbol
               Symbol
               Symbol               Samples
                                   Samples
                                   Samples         Precision
                                                  Precision
                                                  Precision          Recall
                                                                    Recall
                                                                    Recall            F1
                                                                                     F1
                                                                                      F1   Score
                                                                                          Score
                                                                                          Score      Samples
                                                                                                    Samples
                                                                                                    Samples         Precision
                                                                                                                   Precision
                                                                                                                   Precision         Recall
                                                                                                                                    Recall
                                                                                                                                    Recall      F1    Score
                                                                                                                                                 F1Score
                                                                                                                                                 F1  Score
                                   Samples
                                   Samples
                                   Samples
                                   Samples        Precision
                                                   Precision
                                                  Precision
                                                   Precision
                                   Samples Precision                Recall
                                                                    Recall
                                                                    Recall
                                                         Original Dataset
                                                                    Recall
                                                                    Recall           F1
                                                                                      F1
                                                                                     F1
                                                                                     F1   Score
                                                                                           Score
                                                                                          Score
                                                                                      F1Score       Samples
                                                                                                     Samples
                                                                                                    Samples
                                                                                           Score Samples           Precision
                                                                                                                   Precision
                                                                                                                   Precision
                                                                                                                   Augmented
                                                                                                                   Precision Dataset
                                                                                                     Samples Precision              Recall
                                                                                                                                     Recall
                                                                                                                                    Recall
                                                                                                                                     Recall
                                                                                                                                    Recall      F1
                                                                                                                                                 F1
                                                                                                                                                 F1  Score
                                                                                                                                                      Score
                                                                                                                                                     Score
                                                                                                                                                 F1Score
                                                                                                                                                F1    Score
                                   Samples        Precision         Recall            F1  Score     Samples        Precision        Recall       F1  Score
              Voltmeter
            Voltmeter
             Voltmeter
              Symbol
            Voltmeter
             Voltmeter                  66
                                       66
                                       66
                                       66
                                       66               0.78
                                                       0.78
                                                       0.78
                                                       0.78
                                                       0.78           0.82
                                                                     0.82
                                                                      0.82
                                                                     0.82
                                                                      0.82                0.77
                                                                                         0.77
                                                                                         0.77
                                                                                         0.77
                                                                                         0.77           666
                                                                                                       666
                                                                                                        666
                                                                                                       666
                                                                                                       666              1.00
                                                                                                                       1.00
                                                                                                                       1.00
                                                                                                                       1.00
                                                                                                                       1.00            1.00
                                                                                                                                      1.00
                                                                                                                                      1.00
                                                                                                                                      1.00
                                                                                                                                      1.00           1.00
                                                                                                                                                   1.00
                                                                                                                                                    1.00
                                                                                                                                                    1.00
                                                                                                                                                    1.00
             Voltmeter
            Voltmeter
              Voltmeter
             Voltmeter                  66
                                     Samples
                                       66
                                        66
                                       66               0.78
                                                     Precision
                                                       0.78
                                                        0.78
                                                       0.78           0.82
                                                                      Recall
                                                                     0.82
                                                                      0.82
                                                                      0.82                0.77
                                                                                       F10.77
                                                                                           Score
                                                                                          0.77
                                                                                         0.77           666
                                                                                                    Samples
                                                                                                       666
                                                                                                        666
                                                                                                       666              1.00
                                                                                                                  Precision
                                                                                                                       1.00
                                                                                                                        1.00
                                                                                                                       1.00            1.00
                                                                                                                                   Recall
                                                                                                                                      1.00
                                                                                                                                       1.00
                                                                                                                                      1.00           1.00
                                                                                                                                              F1 Score
                                                                                                                                                   1.00
                                                                                                                                                     1.00
                                                                                                                                                    1.00
                  CT
                  CT
                  CT
                  CT
                  CT
                  CT                   102
                                      102
                                      102
                                      102
                                       102
                                      102               0.92
                                                       0.92
                                                       0.92
                                                       0.92
                                                        0.92
                                                       0.92           1.00
                                                                     1.00
                                                                      1.00
                                                                     1.00
                                                                      1.00
                                                                      1.00                0.95
                                                                                         0.95
                                                                                         0.95
                                                                                         0.95
                                                                                          0.95
                                                                                         0.95           671
                                                                                                       671
                                                                                                        671
                                                                                                       671
                                                                                                        671
                                                                                                       671              1.00
                                                                                                                       1.00
                                                                                                                       1.00
                                                                                                                       1.00
                                                                                                                        1.00
                                                                                                                       1.00            0.98
                                                                                                                                      0.98
                                                                                                                                      0.98
                                                                                                                                      0.98
                                                                                                                                       0.98
                                                                                                                                      0.98           0.98
                                                                                                                                                   0.98
                                                                                                                                                    0.98
                                                                                                                                                    0.98
                                                                                                                                                     0.98
                  CT
                  CT
                  CT
            Voltmeter                  102
                                      102
                                      10266             0.92
                                                       0.92
                                                       0.92
                                                         0.78         1.00
                                                                     1.00
                                                                      1.00
                                                                       0.82               0.95
                                                                                         0.95
                                                                                         0.95
                                                                                          0.77          671
                                                                                                       671
                                                                                                       671
                                                                                                       666              1.00
                                                                                                                       1.00
                                                                                                                       1.00
                                                                                                                      1.00             0.98
                                                                                                                                      0.98
                                                                                                                                      0.98
                                                                                                                                    1.00        1.000.98
                                                                                                                                                     0.98
                                                                                                                                                     .98
                                                                                                                                                    0.98
        Circuit     Breaker
         CircuitBreaker
         Circuit
        Circuit
         Circuit    Breaker
                   Breaker
                   Breaker             298
                                      298
                                      298
                                      298
                                      298               0.78
                                                       0.78
                                                       0.78
                                                       0.78
                                                       0.78           0.82
                                                                     0.82
                                                                      0.82
                                                                     0.82
                                                                      0.82                0.77
                                                                                         0.77
                                                                                         0.77
                                                                                         0.77
                                                                                         0.77           908
                                                                                                       908
                                                                                                        908
                                                                                                       908
                                                                                                       908              1.00
                                                                                                                       1.00
                                                                                                                       1.00
                                                                                                                       1.00
                                                                                                                       1.00            1.00
                                                                                                                                      1.00
                                                                                                                                      1.00
                                                                                                                                      1.00
                                                                                                                                      1.00           1.00
                                                                                                                                                   1.00
                                                                                                                                                    1.00
                                                                                                                                                    1.00
                                                                                                                                                    1.00
         Circuit
        Circuit
         Circuit
         Circuit    Breaker
                 CTBreaker
                    Breaker
                    Breaker            298
                                        102
                                      298
                                       298
                                      298               0.78
                                                         0.92
                                                       0.78
                                                        0.78
                                                       0.78           0.82
                                                                       1.00
                                                                     0.82
                                                                      0.82
                                                                      0.82                0.77
                                                                                          0.95
                                                                                         0.77
                                                                                          0.77
                                                                                         0.77           908
                                                                                                       671
                                                                                                       908
                                                                                                        908
                                                                                                        908             1.00
                                                                                                                      1.00
                                                                                                                       1.00
                                                                                                                        1.00
                                                                                                                       1.00            1.00
                                                                                                                                    0.98
                                                                                                                                      1.00
                                                                                                                                       1.00
                                                                                                                                      1.00      0.98 1.00
                                                                                                                                                    1.00
                                                                                                                                                     1.00
                                                                                                                                                    1.00
        Circuit  Delta
                Delta
                 Delta
                Delta
                  Breaker
                 Delta                 158
                                      158
                                      158
                                      158
                                        298
                                      158               0.33
                                                       0.33
                                                       0.33
                                                       0.33
                                                         0.78
                                                       0.33           1.00
                                                                     1.00
                                                                      1.00
                                                                     1.00
                                                                       0.82
                                                                      1.00                0.49
                                                                                         0.49
                                                                                         0.49
                                                                                         0.49
                                                                                          0.77
                                                                                         0.49           848
                                                                                                       848
                                                                                                        848
                                                                                                       848
                                                                                                       908
                                                                                                       848              1.00
                                                                                                                       1.00
                                                                                                                       1.00
                                                                                                                       1.00
                                                                                                                      1.00
                                                                                                                       1.00            1.00
                                                                                                                                      1.00
                                                                                                                                      1.00
                                                                                                                                      1.00
                                                                                                                                    1.00
                                                                                                                                      1.00         1.00
                                                                                                                                                1.00 1.00
                                                                                                                                                    1.00
                                                                                                                                                    1.00
                                                                                                                                                    1.00
                 Delta
                Delta
                 Delta
                 Delta                 158
                                      158
                                       158
                                      158               0.33
                                                       0.33
                                                        0.33
                                                       0.33           1.00
                                                                     1.00
                                                                      1.00
                                                                      1.00                0.49
                                                                                         0.49
                                                                                          0.49
                                                                                         0.49           848
                                                                                                       848
                                                                                                        848
                                                                                                        848             1.00
                                                                                                                       1.00
                                                                                                                        1.00
                                                                                                                       1.00            1.00
                                                                                                                                      1.00
                                                                                                                                       1.00
                                                                                                                                      1.00           1.00
                                                                                                                                                   1.00
                                                                                                                                                     1.00
                                                                                                                                                    1.00
           Transformer
          Transformer
          Transformer
               Delta
          Transformer
           Transformer
          Transformer                   89
                                       89
                                       89
                                        158
                                       89
                                        89
                                       89               0.90
                                                       0.90
                                                       0.90
                                                         0.33
                                                       0.90
                                                        0.90
                                                       0.90           0.77
                                                                     0.77
                                                                      0.77
                                                                       1.00
                                                                     0.77
                                                                      0.77
                                                                      0.77                0.82
                                                                                         0.82
                                                                                         0.82
                                                                                          0.49
                                                                                         0.82
                                                                                          0.82
                                                                                         0.82           666
                                                                                                       666
                                                                                                        666
                                                                                                       848
                                                                                                       666
                                                                                                        666
                                                                                                       666              1.00
                                                                                                                       1.00
                                                                                                                       1.00
                                                                                                                      1.00
                                                                                                                       1.00
                                                                                                                        1.00
                                                                                                                       1.00            1.00
                                                                                                                                      1.00
                                                                                                                                      1.00
                                                                                                                                    1.00
                                                                                                                                      1.00
                                                                                                                                       1.00
                                                                                                                                      1.00           1.00
                                                                                                                                                   1.00
                                                                                                                                                    1.00
                                                                                                                                                1.001.00
                                                                                                                                                     1.00
                                                                                                                                                    1.00
           Transformer
          Transformer
          Transformer
          Transformer
                                        89
                                       89
                                       8989
                                                        0.90
                                                       0.90
                                                       0.90
                                                         0.90
                                                                      0.77
                                                                     0.77
                                                                      0.77
                                                                       0.77
                                                                                          0.82
                                                                                         0.82
                                                                                         0.82
                                                                                          0.82
                                                                                                        666
                                                                                                       666
                                                                                                        666
                                                                                                       666
                                                                                                                        1.00
                                                                                                                       1.00
                                                                                                                       1.00
                                                                                                                      1.00
                                                                                                                                       1.00
                                                                                                                                      1.00
                                                                                                                                      1.00
                                                                                                                                    1.00        1.00
                                                                                                                                                     1.00
                                                                                                                                                    1.00
                                                                                                                                                    1.00
             Inductance
           Inductance
            Inductance
           Inductance
            Inductance                  35
                                       35
                                       35
                                       35
                                       35               0.68
                                                       0.68
                                                       0.68
                                                       0.68
                                                       0.68           1.00
                                                                     1.00
                                                                      1.00
                                                                     1.00
                                                                      1.00                0.80
                                                                                         0.80
                                                                                         0.80
                                                                                         0.80
                                                                                         0.80           722
                                                                                                       722
                                                                                                        722
                                                                                                       722
                                                                                                       722              0.92
                                                                                                                       0.92
                                                                                                                       0.92
                                                                                                                       0.92
                                                                                                                       0.92            1.00
                                                                                                                                      1.00
                                                                                                                                      1.00
                                                                                                                                      1.00
                                                                                                                                      1.00           0.95
                                                                                                                                                     .95
                                                                                                                                                    0.95
                                                                                                                                                    0.95
                                                                                                                                                    0.95
            Inductance
           Inductance
             Inductance
            Inductance
           Inductance                   35
                                       35
                                        35
                                       3535             0.68
                                                       0.68
                                                        0.68
                                                       0.68
                                                         0.68         1.00
                                                                     1.00
                                                                      1.00
                                                                      1.00
                                                                       1.00               0.80
                                                                                         0.80
                                                                                          0.80
                                                                                         0.80
                                                                                          0.80          722
                                                                                                       722
                                                                                                        722
                                                                                                        722
                                                                                                       722              0.92
                                                                                                                       0.92
                                                                                                                        0.92
                                                                                                                       0.92
                                                                                                                      0.92             1.00
                                                                                                                                      1.00
                                                                                                                                       1.00
                                                                                                                                      1.00
                                                                                                                                    1.00        0.95 0.95
                                                                                                                                                    0.95
                                                                                                                                                     0.95
                                                                                                                                                    0.95
              Generator
            Generator
             Generator
            Generator
             Generator
             Generator                 309
                                      309
                                      309
                                      309
                                       309
                                      309               1.00
                                                       1.00
                                                       1.00
                                                       1.00
                                                        1.00
                                                       1.00           0.58
                                                                     0.58
                                                                      0.58
                                                                     0.58
                                                                      0.58
                                                                      0.58                0.73
                                                                                         0.73
                                                                                         0.73
                                                                                         0.73
                                                                                          0.73
                                                                                         0.73           998
                                                                                                       998
                                                                                                        998
                                                                                                       998
                                                                                                        998
                                                                                                       998              1.00
                                                                                                                       1.00
                                                                                                                       1.00
                                                                                                                       1.00
                                                                                                                        1.00
                                                                                                                       1.00            1.00
                                                                                                                                      1.00
                                                                                                                                      1.00
                                                                                                                                      1.00
                                                                                                                                       1.00
                                                                                                                                      1.00           1.00
                                                                                                                                                   1.00
                                                                                                                                                    1.00
                                                                                                                                                    1.00
                                                                                                                                                     1.00
                                                                                                                                                    1.00
              Generator
            Generator
            Generator
             Generator                 309
                                      309
                                        309
                                      309               1.00
                                                       1.00
                                                         1.00
                                                       1.00           0.58
                                                                     0.58
                                                                       0.58
                                                                      0.58                0.73
                                                                                         0.73
                                                                                         0.73           998
                                                                                                       998
                                                                                                        998             1.00
                                                                                                                       1.00
                                                                                                                      1.00
                                                                                                                       1.00            1.00
                                                                                                                                      1.00
                                                                                                                                    1.00
                                                                                                                                      1.00           1.00
                                                                                                                                                1.001.00
                                                                                                                                                    1.00
                  OCB
                 OCB
                 OCB
                 OCB
                 OCB
                 OCB
                OCB
                                        55
                                       55
                                       55
                                       55
                                        55
                                       5555
                                                        1.00
                                                       1.00
                                                       1.00
                                                       1.00
                                                        1.00
                                                       1.00
                                                         1.00
                                                                      0.91
                                                                     0.91
                                                                      0.91
                                                                     0.91
                                                                      0.91
                                                                      0.91
                                                                       0.91
                                                                                          0.95
                                                                                         0.95
                                                                                         0.95
                                                                                         0.95
                                                                                          0.95
                                                                                         0.95
                                                                                          0.95
                                                                                                        635
                                                                                                       635
                                                                                                        635
                                                                                                       635
                                                                                                        635
                                                                                                       635
                                                                                                       635
                                                                                                                        1.00
                                                                                                                       1.00
                                                                                                                       1.00
                                                                                                                       1.00
                                                                                                                        1.00
                                                                                                                       1.00
                                                                                                                      1.00
                                                                                                                                       1.00
                                                                                                                                      1.00
                                                                                                                                      1.00
                                                                                                                                      1.00
                                                                                                                                       1.00
                                                                                                                                      1.00
                                                                                                                                    1.00
                                                                                                                                                     1.00
                                                                                                                                                   1.00
                                                                                                                                                1.001.00
                                                                                                                                                    1.00
                                                                                                                                                     1.00
                                                                                                                                                    1.00
                 OCB
                 OCB
                 OCB                    55
                                       55
                                       55               1.00
                                                       1.00
                                                       1.00           0.91
                                                                     0.91
                                                                      0.91                0.95
                                                                                         0.95
                                                                                         0.95           635
                                                                                                       635
                                                                                                       635              1.00
                                                                                                                       1.00
                                                                                                                       1.00            1.00
                                                                                                                                      1.00
                                                                                                                                      1.00           1.00
                                                                                                                                                   1.00
                                                                                                                                                    1.00
                 Relay
                Relay
                 Relay
               Relay
                Relay
                Relay                   68
                                       68
                                       68
                                       68
                                       6868             0.38
                                                       0.38
                                                       0.38
                                                         0.38
                                                       0.38
                                                       0.38           0.01
                                                                     0.01
                                                                      0.01
                                                                       0.01
                                                                     0.01
                                                                      0.01               0.019
                                                                                        0.019
                                                                                        0.019
                                                                                         0.019
                                                                                        0.019
                                                                                        0.019           557
                                                                                                       557
                                                                                                        557
                                                                                                       557
                                                                                                       557
                                                                                                       557              1.00
                                                                                                                       1.00
                                                                                                                       1.00
                                                                                                                      1.00
                                                                                                                       1.00
                                                                                                                       1.00            1.00
                                                                                                                                      1.00
                                                                                                                                      1.00
                                                                                                                                    1.00
                                                                                                                                      1.00
                                                                                                                                      1.00      1.00 1.00
                                                                                                                                                   1.00
                                                                                                                                                    1.00
                                                                                                                                                    1.00
                                                                                                                                                    1.00
                 Relay
                Relay
                 Relay
                Relay                   68
                                       68
                                        68
                                       68               0.38
                                                       0.38
                                                        0.38
                                                       0.38           0.01
                                                                     0.01
                                                                      0.01
                                                                      0.01               0.019
                                                                                        0.019
                                                                                         0.019
                                                                                        0.019           557
                                                                                                       557
                                                                                                        557
                                                                                                       557              1.00
                                                                                                                       1.00
                                                                                                                        1.00
                                                                                                                       1.00            1.00
                                                                                                                                      1.00
                                                                                                                                       1.00
                                                                                                                                      1.00           1.00
                                                                                                                                                   1.00
                                                                                                                                                     1.00
                                                                                                                                                    1.00
                Switch
               Switch
                Switch
              Switch
               Switch
                Switch
               Switch                  425
                                      425
                                      425
                                        425
                                      425
                                       425
                                      425               1.00
                                                       1.00
                                                       1.00
                                                         1.00
                                                       1.00
                                                        1.00
                                                       1.00           0.68
                                                                     0.68
                                                                      0.68
                                                                       0.68
                                                                     0.68
                                                                      0.68
                                                                      0.68                0.80
                                                                                         0.80
                                                                                         0.80
                                                                                         0.80
                                                                                          0.80
                                                                                         0.80           893
                                                                                                       893
                                                                                                        893
                                                                                                       893
                                                                                                        893
                                                                                                       893              1.00
                                                                                                                       1.00
                                                                                                                       1.00
                                                                                                                      1.00
                                                                                                                       1.00
                                                                                                                        1.00
                                                                                                                       1.00            0.98
                                                                                                                                      0.98
                                                                                                                                      0.98
                                                                                                                                    0.98
                                                                                                                                      0.98
                                                                                                                                       0.98
                                                                                                                                      0.98
                                                                                                                                                0.98 0.98
                                                                                                                                                   0.98
                                                                                                                                                    0.98
                                                                                                                                                    0.98
                                                                                                                                                     0.98
                                                                                                                                                    0.98
                Switch
               Switch
                Switch
               Motor                   425
                                      425
                                      42579             1.00
                                                       1.00
                                                       1.00
                                                         1.00         0.68
                                                                     0.68
                                                                      0.68
                                                                       0.98               0.80
                                                                                         0.80
                                                                                         0.80
                                                                                          0.98          893
                                                                                                       893
                                                                                                        893
                                                                                                       639              1.00
                                                                                                                       1.00
                                                                                                                       1.00
                                                                                                                      1.00             0.98
                                                                                                                                      0.98
                                                                                                                                      0.98
                                                                                                                                    0.98             0.98
                                                                                                                                                   0.98
                                                                                                                                                0.980.98
                 Motor
               Motor
                Motor
               Motor
                Motor                   79
                                       79
                                       79
                                       79
                                       79               1.00
                                                       1.00
                                                       1.00
                                                       1.00
                                                       1.00           0.98
                                                                     0.98
                                                                      0.98
                                                                     0.98
                                                                      0.98                0.98
                                                                                         0.98
                                                                                         0.98
                                                                                         0.98
                                                                                         0.98           639
                                                                                                       639
                                                                                                        639
                                                                                                       639
                                                                                                       639              1.00
                                                                                                                       1.00
                                                                                                                       1.00
                                                                                                                       1.00
                                                                                                                       1.00            0.98
                                                                                                                                      0.98
                                                                                                                                      0.98
                                                                                                                                      0.98
                                                                                                                                      0.98           0.98
                                                                                                                                                   0.98
                                                                                                                                                    0.98
                                                                                                                                                    0.98
                Motor
               Motor
     Air Circuit Motor
                Motor
                    Breaker             79
                                       79
                                        79
                                       79
                                        155             1.00
                                                       1.00
                                                        1.00
                                                       1.00
                                                         0.56         0.98
                                                                     0.98
                                                                      0.98
                                                                      0.98
                                                                       0.98               0.98
                                                                                         0.98
                                                                                          0.98
                                                                                         0.98
                                                                                          0.70          639
                                                                                                       639
                                                                                                        639
                                                                                                        639
                                                                                                       953              1.00
                                                                                                                       1.00
                                                                                                                        1.00
                                                                                                                       1.00
                                                                                                                      1.00             0.98
                                                                                                                                      0.98
                                                                                                                                       0.98
                                                                                                                                      0.98
                                                                                                                                    1.00        1.000.98
                                                                                                                                                     0.98
                                                                                                                                                     .98
                                                                                                                                                     0.98
                                                                                                                                                    0.98
      Air
     Air
      Air
     Air
     Air     Circuit
           Circuit
            Circuit
           Circuit
            Circuit     Breaker
                      Breaker
                       Breaker
                      Breaker
                       Breaker         155
                                      155
                                      155
                                      155
                                      155               0.56
                                                       0.56
                                                       0.56
                                                       0.56
                                                       0.56           0.98
                                                                     0.98
                                                                      0.98
                                                                     0.98
                                                                      0.98                0.70
                                                                                         0.70
                                                                                         0.70
                                                                                         0.70
                                                                                         0.70           953
                                                                                                       953
                                                                                                        953
                                                                                                       953
                                                                                                       953              1.00
                                                                                                                       1.00
                                                                                                                       1.00
                                                                                                                       1.00
                                                                                                                       1.00            1.00
                                                                                                                                      1.00
                                                                                                                                      1.00
                                                                                                                                      1.00
                                                                                                                                      1.00           1.00
                                                                                                                                                   1.00
                                                                                                                                                    1.00
                                                                                                                                                    1.00
                                                                                                                                                    1.00
      Air   Circuit
     Iron-Core
      AirCircuit
     Air
     Air    Circuit    Breaker
                   Inductor
             Circuit  Breaker
                        Breaker
                       Breaker         155
                                      15539
                                       155
                                      155               0.56
                                                         0.56
                                                       0.56
                                                        0.56
                                                       0.56           0.98
                                                                       0.98
                                                                     0.98
                                                                      0.98
                                                                      0.98                0.70
                                                                                          0.70
                                                                                         0.70
                                                                                          0.70
                                                                                         0.70           953
                                                                                                       828
                                                                                                       953
                                                                                                        953
                                                                                                        953             1.00
                                                                                                                      1.00
                                                                                                                       1.00
                                                                                                                        1.00
                                                                                                                       1.00            1.00
                                                                                                                                    1.00
                                                                                                                                      1.00
                                                                                                                                       1.00
                                                                                                                                      1.00           1.00
                                                                                                                                                1.001.00
                                                                                                                                                     1.00
                                                                                                                                                    1.00
       Iron-Core
     Iron-Core
      Iron-Core       Inductor
                    Inductor
                     Inductor
        Draw-OutInductor
     Iron-Core
      Iron-Core
     Iron-Core         Fuse
                     Inductor
                     Inductor           39
                                       39
                                       39
                                       39
                                       3920
                                        39              0.56
                                                       0.56
                                                       0.56
                                                       0.56
                                                         0.33
                                                        0.56
                                                       0.56           0.98
                                                                     0.98
                                                                      0.98
                                                                     0.98
                                                                        1.0
                                                                      0.98
                                                                      0.98                0.70
                                                                                         0.70
                                                                                         0.70
                                                                                         0.70
                                                                                          0.49
                                                                                          0.70
                                                                                         0.70           828
                                                                                                       828
                                                                                                        828
                                                                                                       828
                                                                                                       800
                                                                                                        828
                                                                                                       828              1.00
                                                                                                                       1.00
                                                                                                                       1.00
                                                                                                                       1.00
                                                                                                                      1.00
                                                                                                                        1.00
                                                                                                                       1.00            1.00
                                                                                                                                      1.00
                                                                                                                                      1.00
                                                                                                                                      1.00
                                                                                                                                    1.00
                                                                                                                                       1.00
                                                                                                                                      1.00           1.00
                                                                                                                                                   1.00
                                                                                                                                                1.001.00
                                                                                                                                                    1.00
                                                                                                                                                     1.00
                                                                                                                                                    1.00
      Iron-Core
     Iron-Core
      Iron-Core       Inductor
                    Inductor
                     Inductor           39
                                       39
                                       39               0.56
                                                       0.56
                                                       0.56           0.98
                                                                     0.98
                                                                      0.98                0.70
                                                                                         0.70
                                                                                         0.70           828
                                                                                                       828
                                                                                                        828             1.00
                                                                                                                       1.00
                                                                                                                       1.00            1.00
                                                                                                                                      1.00
                                                                                                                                      1.00           1.00
                                                                                                                                                    1.00
                                                                                                                                                    1.00
         Draw-Out
        Draw-Out
         Draw-Out
              Ground
        Draw-Out
         Draw-Out        Fuse
                        Fuse
                         Fuse
                        Fuse
                         Fuse           20
                                       20
                                       20
                                       20
                                       2025             0.33
                                                       0.33
                                                       0.33
                                                         0.00
                                                       0.33
                                                       0.33            1.0
                                                                      1.0
                                                                       1.0
                                                                       0.00
                                                                      1.0
                                                                       1.0                0.49
                                                                                         0.49
                                                                                         0.49
                                                                                          0.00
                                                                                         0.49
                                                                                         0.49           800
                                                                                                       800
                                                                                                        800
                                                                                                       695
                                                                                                       800
                                                                                                       800              1.00
                                                                                                                       1.00
                                                                                                                       1.00
                                                                                                                      0.92
                                                                                                                       1.00
                                                                                                                       1.00            1.00
                                                                                                                                      1.00
                                                                                                                                      1.00
                                                                                                                                    1.00
                                                                                                                                      1.00
                                                                                                                                      1.00         1.00
                                                                                                                                                0.95 1.00
                                                                                                                                                    1.00
                                                                                                                                                    1.00
                                                                                                                                                    1.00
         Draw-Out
        Draw-Out
         Draw-Out
         Draw-Out        Fuse
                        Fuse
                         Fuse
                         Fuse           20
                                       20
                                        20
                                       20               0.33
                                                       0.33
                                                        0.33
                                                       0.33            1.0
                                                                      1.0
                                                                       1.0
                                                                       1.0                0.49
                                                                                         0.49
                                                                                          0.49
                                                                                         0.49           800
                                                                                                       800
                                                                                                        800
                                                                                                        800             1.00
                                                                                                                       1.00
                                                                                                                        1.00
                                                                                                                       1.00            1.00
                                                                                                                                      1.00
                                                                                                                                       1.00
                                                                                                                                      1.00           1.00
                                                                                                                                                    1.00
                                                                                                                                                     1.00
                                                                                                                                                    1.00
               Diode
               Ground
              Ground
               Ground                  25
                                       2530
                                        25               0.92
                                                        0.00
                                                       0.00
                                                       0.00            1.00
                                                                      0.00
                                                                     0.00
                                                                      0.00                0.95
                                                                                          0.00
                                                                                         0.00
                                                                                         0.00          663
                                                                                                        695
                                                                                                       695
                                                                                                        695           1.00
                                                                                                                        0.92
                                                                                                                       0.92
                                                                                                                       0.92         0.98
                                                                                                                                       1.00
                                                                                                                                      1.00
                                                                                                                                      1.00      0.98 0.95
                                                                                                                                                   0.95
                                                                                                                                                    0.95
              Ground
               Ground
               Ground
               Ground
              Ground                   25
                                        25
                                       25
                                        25
                                       25              0.00
                                                        0.00
                                                       0.00
                                                        0.00
                                                       0.00          0.00
                                                                      0.00
                                                                      0.00
                                                                      0.00
                                                                     0.00                0.00
                                                                                          0.00
                                                                                         0.00
                                                                                          0.00
                                                                                         0.00          695
                                                                                                        695
                                                                                                       695
                                                                                                        695
                                                                                                       695             0.92
                                                                                                                        0.92
                                                                                                                       0.92
                                                                                                                        0.92
                                                                                                                       0.92           1.00
                                                                                                                                       1.00
                                                                                                                                      1.00
                                                                                                                                       1.00
                                                                                                                                      1.00          0.95
                                                                                                                                                     0.95
                                                                                                                                                    0.95
                                                                                                                                                     0.95
                                                                                                                                                   0.95
               Ground
                 Diode                 25
                                        30             0.00
                                                        0.92          0.00
                                                                      1.00               0.00
                                                                                          0.95          695
                                                                                                        663            0.92
                                                                                                                        1.00          1.00
                                                                                                                                       0.98         0.95
                                                                                                                                                     0.98
               Diode
                Diode
                Diode
                Diode
                Diode                  30
                                       30
                                       30
                                        30
                                       30              0.92
                                                       0.92
                                                       0.92
                                                        0.92
                                                       0.92          1.00
                                                                      1.00
                                                                     1.00
                                                                      1.00
                                                                      1.00               0.95
                                                                                         0.95
                                                                                         0.95
                                                                                          0.95
                                                                                         0.95          663
                                                                                                        663
                                                                                                       663
                                                                                                        663
                                                                                                       663             1.00
                                                                                                                       1.00
                                                                                                                       1.00
                                                                                                                        1.00
                                                                                                                       1.00           0.98
                                                                                                                                      0.98
                                                                                                                                      0.98
                                                                                                                                       0.98
                                                                                                                                      0.98         0.98
                                                                                                                                                    0.98
                                                                                                                                                    0.98
                                                                                                                                                     0.98
                                                                                                                                                    0.98
                 Diode
                Diode
                Diode                   30
                                       30
                                       30               0.92
                                                       0.92
                                                       0.92           1.00
                                                                     1.00
                                                                      1.00                0.95
                                                                                         0.95
                                                                                         0.95           663
                                                                                                       663
                                                                                                        663             1.00
                                                                                                                       1.00
                                                                                                                       1.00            0.98
                                                                                                                                      0.98
                                                                                                                                      0.98           0.98
                                                                                                                                                    0.98
                                                                                                                                                    0.98
                                       5. Discussion
                                            5.5.Discussion
                                             5.
                                            5.  Discussion
                                                Discussion
                                                Discussion
                                             5.This
                                            5.
                                             5.
                                            5.
                                             5.       section presents a concise and precise description of the experimental results,
                                                Discussion
                                                Discussion
                                                Discussion
                                                Discussion
                                                Discussion
                                                    This
                                                  This
                                                   This
                                       their interpretation,
                                                  This
                                                   This     sectionand
                                                          section
                                                           section
                                                          section
                                                           section   presents
                                                                    presents
                                                                    presents
                                                                         the conclusions
                                                                    presents
                                                                    presents    aaaaaconcise
                                                                                       conciseand
                                                                                      concise
                                                                                     concise
                                                                                      concise    andprecise
                                                                                                and
                                                                                                drawn
                                                                                               and
                                                                                                and   precise
                                                                                                        from description
                                                                                                     precise
                                                                                                     precise
                                                                                                     precise    description
                                                                                                               description
                                                                                                               the            ofthe
                                                                                                                   experiments.
                                                                                                               description
                                                                                                               description   of
                                                                                                                             of
                                                                                                                             of
                                                                                                                             of   theexperimental
                                                                                                                                  the
                                                                                                                                 the
                                                                                                                                 the  experimental
                                                                                                                                      experimental     results,
                                                                                                                                       experimentalresults,
                                                                                                                                       experimental   results,
                                                                                                                                                      results,
                                                                                                                                                      results,
                                                   This
                                                  This
                                                    This
                                                   This    section  presents
                                                           sectionpresents
                                                          section
                                                           section   presents
                                                                    presents          concise
                                                                                 aaaaconclusions
                                                                                     concise
                                                                                      conciseand
                                                                                      concise   and
                                                                                                and  precise
                                                                                                     precise
                                                                                                 anddrawn
                                                                                                      precise
                                                                                                     precise   description
                                                                                                               description
                                                                                                                description
                                                                                                               description    of  the
                                                                                                                              ofthe
                                                                                                                             of
                                                                                                                             of        experimental
                                                                                                                                       experimentalresults,
                                                                                                                                  theexperimental
                                                                                                                                 the   experimental    results,
                                                                                                                                                       results,
                                                                                                                                                      results,
                                              their
                                            their
                                             their
                                            their
                                             their
                                            their    interpretation,
                                                   interpretation,
                                                    interpretation,
                                                   interpretation,
                                                    interpretation,
                                                    interpretation,      and
                                                                       and
                                                                        and
                                                                        and
                                                                        and
                                                                        and    the
                                                                             the
                                                                              the
                                                                             the
                                                                              the
                                                                             the      conclusions
                                                                                     conclusions
                                                                                     conclusions
                                                                                      conclusions
                                                                                     conclusions     drawn
                                                                                                    drawn
                                                                                                    drawn
                                                                                                    drawn
                                                                                                    drawn     from
                                                                                                            from
                                                                                                             from
                                                                                                            from
                                                                                                             from
                                                                                                            from     the
                                                                                                                   the
                                                                                                                    the
                                                                                                                   the
                                                                                                                    the
                                                                                                                    the   experiments.
                                                                                                                         experiments.
                                                                                                                         experiments.
                                                                                                                         experiments.
                                                                                                                          experiments.
                                                                                                                         experiments.
                                             theirinterpretation,
                                            their
                                             their   interpretation,and
                                                    interpretation,      andthe
                                                                        and   theconclusions
                                                                              the     conclusionsdrawn
                                                                                     conclusions    drawnfrom
                                                                                                    drawn    fromthe
                                                                                                             from    theexperiments.
                                                                                                                    the   experiments.
                                                                                                                         experiments.
                                               5.1.Comparison
                                              5.1.
                                              5.1.
                                              5.1.
                                               5.1.
                                              5.1.  Comparisonwith
                                                    Comparison
                                                    Comparison
                                                    Comparison
                                                    Comparison        withDiﬀerent
                                                                      with
                                                                     with
                                                                      with
                                                                      with   DiﬀerentData
                                                                             Diﬀerent
                                                                            Diﬀerent
                                                                             Diﬀerent
                                                                            Diﬀerent    Data
                                                                                       Data
                                                                                        Data  Augmentation
                                                                                             Augmentation
                                                                                              Augmentation        Techniques
                                                                                               AugmentationTechniques
                                                                                        DataAugmentation
                                                                                       Data   Augmentation        Techniques
                                                                                                                 Techniques
                                                                                                                  Techniques
                                                                                                                 Techniques
                                               5.1.Comparison
                                              5.1.
                                              5.1.  Comparisonwith
                                                    Comparison        withDiﬀerent
                                                                      with   DiﬀerentData
                                                                            Diﬀerent    DataAugmentation
                                                                                       Data    AugmentationTechniques
                                                                                              Augmentation        Techniques
                                                                                                                  Techniques
                                                      Table333shows
                                                     Table
                                                     Table
                                                     Table         showsthe
                                                                  shows     theoccurrences
                                                                           the    occurrencesof
                                                                                  occurrences    of16
                                                                                                 of       diﬀerentclasses
                                                                                                     16diﬀerent
                                                                                                     16  diﬀerent       classespresent
                                                                                                                       classes  presentin
                                                                                                                                present     inboth
                                                                                                                                           in  bothdatasets.
                                                                                                                                               both  datasets.After
                                                                                                                                                     datasets.     After
                                                                                                                                                                  After
                                                      Table
                                                     Table
                                                     Table
                                                                  shows
                                                      Table333333shows
                                                     Table         shows
                                                                  shows
                                                                  shows
                                                                          the
                                                                   showsthethe
                                                                           the
                                                                           the
                                                                                 occurrences
                                                                                  occurrences
                                                                                 occurrences
                                                                                  occurrencesof
                                                                            theoccurrences
                                                                                  occurrences
                                                                                                of
                                                                                                 of
                                                                                                 of
                                                                                                 of16
                                                                                                 of
                                                                                                    16
                                                                                                     16
                                                                                                     16
                                                                                                     16
                                                                                                        diﬀerent
                                                                                                          diﬀerent
                                                                                                         diﬀerent
                                                                                                         diﬀerent
                                                                                                                      classes
                                                                                                                       classes
                                                                                                                      classes
                                                                                                          diﬀerentclasses
                                                                                                     16diﬀerent        classes
                                                                                                                               present
                                                                                                                                present
                                                                                                                               present
                                                                                                                                presentin
                                                                                                                        classespresent
                                                                                                                                present
                                                                                                                                          in
                                                                                                                                           in
                                                                                                                                           in  both
                                                                                                                                            inboth
                                                                                                                                           in
                                                                                                                                              both
                                                                                                                                               both  datasets.
                                                                                                                                               bothdatasets.
                                                                                                                                               both
                                                                                                                                                    datasets.
                                                                                                                                                     datasets.
                                                                                                                                                     datasets.
                                                                                                                                                                  After
                                                                                                                                                                  After
                                                                                                                                                                  After
                                                                                                                                                                  After
                                                                                                                                                     datasets.After
                                                                                                                                                                  After
                                               generating
                                              generating
                                              generating
                                              generating
                                               generating
                                              generating         fake
                                                              fake
                                                                fake
                                                              fake
                                                                fake
                                                                fake   SLD
                                                                      SLD
                                                                      SLD
                                                                      SLD
                                                                       SLD
                                                                      SLD      images
                                                                             images
                                                                              images
                                                                             images
                                                                              images
                                                                             images    using
                                                                                      using
                                                                                      using
                                                                                      using
                                                                                       using
                                                                                      using    the
                                                                                             the
                                                                                               the
                                                                                              the
                                                                                               the
                                                                                              the    DCGAN
                                                                                                   DCGAN
                                                                                                    DCGAN
                                                                                                   DCGAN
                                                                                                    DCGAN
                                                                                                    DCGAN        and
                                                                                                                and
                                                                                                                 and
                                                                                                                and
                                                                                                                 and
                                                                                                                and      LSGAN,
                                                                                                                       LSGAN,
                                                                                                                        LSGAN,
                                                                                                                        LSGAN,
                                                                                                                         LSGAN,
                                                                                                                        LSGAN,    it
                                                                                                                                   it
                                                                                                                                  itit
                                                                                                                                   it
                                                                                                                                   it  was
                                                                                                                                      was
                                                                                                                                       was
                                                                                                                                      was
                                                                                                                                       was
                                                                                                                                      was    observed
                                                                                                                                           observed
                                                                                                                                            observed
                                                                                                                                           observed
                                                                                                                                            observed
                                                                                                                                            observed     that
                                                                                                                                                       that
                                                                                                                                                        that
                                                                                                                                                       that
                                                                                                                                                        that
                                                                                                                                                       that     the
                                                                                                                                                              the
                                                                                                                                                               the
                                                                                                                                                              the
                                                                                                                                                               the
                                                                                                                                                              the   new
                                                                                                                                                                   new
                                                                                                                                                                    new
                                                                                                                                                                   new
                                                                                                                                                                    new
                                                                                                                                                                    new
                                               generatingfake
                                              generating
                                              generating        fake   SLDimages
                                                                 fakeSLD
                                                                      SLD     imagesusing
                                                                              images   usingthe
                                                                                      using    theDCGAN
                                                                                              the   DCGANand
                                                                                                    DCGAN                LSGAN,it
                                                                                                                 andLSGAN,
                                                                                                                 and    LSGAN,                          thatthe
                                                                                                                                             observedthat
                                                                                                                                       wasobserved
                                                                                                                                    itwas
                                                                                                                                   it  was  observed    that   thenew
                                                                                                                                                               the  new
                                                                                                                                                                    new
                                               sampleswere
                                              samples
                                              samples
                                              samples
                                              samples     werenearly
                                                          were
                                                         were
                                                         were        nearlybalanced,
                                                                    nearly
                                                                    nearly
                                                                    nearly      balanced,although
                                                                               balanced,
                                                                              balanced,
                                                                               balanced,   althoughthe
                                                                                          although
                                                                                          although
                                                                                          although       the
                                                                                                        the
                                                                                                        the  class
                                                                                                             class
                                                                                                             class    imbalance
                                                                                                                     imbalance
                                                                                                                     imbalance        problemcan
                                                                                                                       imbalanceproblem
                                                                                                              classimbalance
                                                                                                          theclass                   problem
                                                                                                                                    problem
                                                                                                                                     problem     canbe
                                                                                                                                                can
                                                                                                                                                can
                                                                                                                                                can   befurther
                                                                                                                                                     be
                                                                                                                                                     be
                                                                                                                                                     be    furtherim-
                                                                                                                                                           further
                                                                                                                                                          further
                                                                                                                                                          further     im-
                                                                                                                                                                     im-
                                                                                                                                                                    im-
                                                                                                                                                                     im-
                                               samples
                                              samples
                                               samples
                                              samples     were
                                                         were
                                                          were
                                                          were       nearly
                                                                    nearly
                                                                     nearly
                                                                    nearly      balanced,
                                                                              balanced,
                                                                                balanced,
                                                                               balanced,   although
                                                                                          although
                                                                                           although
                                                                                          although       the
                                                                                                         theclass
                                                                                                        the
                                                                                                         the  class
                                                                                                              class
                                                                                                             class    imbalance
                                                                                                                     imbalance
                                                                                                                       imbalance
                                                                                                                      imbalance      problem
                                                                                                                                    problem
                                                                                                                                     problemcan
                                                                                                                                     problem     can be
                                                                                                                                                 canbe
                                                                                                                                                can        further
                                                                                                                                                           furtherim-
                                                                                                                                                      befurther
                                                                                                                                                     be   further    im-
                                                                                                                                                                      im-
                                                                                                                                                                     im-
                                               proved
                                              proved
                                              proved
                                              proved
                                              proved     by
                                                        by
                                                        by
                                                        by
                                                        by      adding
                                                            adding
                                                              adding
                                                            adding
                                                             adding       unlike
                                                                         unlike
                                                                         unlike
                                                                         unlike
                                                                         unlike     and
                                                                                   and
                                                                                    and
                                                                                   and
                                                                                    and  distinct
                                                                                        distinct
                                                                                        distinct
                                                                                        distinct
                                                                                        distinct    images
                                                                                                  images
                                                                                                   images
                                                                                                  images
                                                                                                   images    to
                                                                                                              to
                                                                                                             toto
                                                                                                              to   the
                                                                                                                 the
                                                                                                                  the
                                                                                                                 the
                                                                                                                  the    original
                                                                                                                        original
                                                                                                                         original
                                                                                                                        original
                                                                                                                        original   dataset.
                                                                                                                                  dataset.
                                                                                                                                  dataset.
                                                                                                                                  dataset.
                                                                                                                                  dataset.
                                               proved
                                              proved
                                               provedby
                                              proved    by
                                                        by     adding
                                                         byadding
                                                              adding     unlike
                                                                addingunlike
                                                                          unlikeand
                                                                         unlike     and
                                                                                    and distinct    images
                                                                                         distinctimages
                                                                                    anddistinct
                                                                                        distinct    imagesto
                                                                                                   images     to  the
                                                                                                               tothe
                                                                                                              to         original
                                                                                                                   theoriginal
                                                                                                                  the             dataset.
                                                                                                                         originaldataset.
                                                                                                                         original  dataset.
                                                                                                                                  dataset.
Appl. Sci. 2023, 13, 8816                                                                                         22 of 26




                            5.1. Comparison with Different Data Augmentation Techniques
                                  Table 3 shows the occurrences of 16 different classes present in both datasets. After
                            generating fake SLD images using the DCGAN and LSGAN, it was observed that the
                            new samples were nearly balanced, although the class imbalance problem can be further
                            improved by adding unlike and distinct images to the original dataset.
                                  The detection results of two additional dataset versions, the original SLD images with-
                            out synthetic images, were compared with the detection results of the augmentation method
                            shown in Table 4. Along with different preprocessing strategies, the subsequent detection
                            networks, including the YOLO V5-based symbol detection model, were consistent.
                                  It is important to acknowledge that enhancing datasets for complex images such
                            as single-line diagrams (SLDs) can present certain challenges. These challenges may
                            include: (i) acquiring authentic SLD images: obtaining SLD images from reliable and
                            trustworthy sources can be problematic; (ii) the manual labor required for labeling the SLD
                            images: labeling SLD images often requires manual effort, as it entails annotating specific
                            elements or regions of interest within the images; and (iii) obtaining a sufficient number of
                            random samples: constructing a comprehensive dataset for SLD images typically requires
                            an adequate number of diverse and random samples. In light of these challenges, the
                            proposed method has demonstrated improvements and offers an alternative approach
                            to address them. By employing the proposed method, it is possible to overcome the
                            difficulties associated with acquiring authentic SLD images by generating a sufficient
                            number of synthetic data, thus reducing the manual labeling effort, and generating a
                            satisfactory number of random samples for a balanced dataset.

                            5.2. Analysis of the Results
                                  We put YOLO V5 to the test in a variety of settings and configurations using 460
                            images. A detection example is shown in Figure 16. The testing accuracy findings and
                            experimental performance using images outside of our datasets are shown in Table 5.
                            YOLO V5 is typically more precise than earlier iterations. Group 2 (the augmented dataset)
                            had the greatest average accuracy, with a YOLO V5 model accuracy of 95%. There were
                            only two detection mistakes in Group 2 when using YOLO V5. The performance of YOLO
                            will be enhanced by the large dataset, which includes both the original images and the
                            artificial images produced by GANs. When a deep-learning-based algorithm is trained on
                            a sufficient and adequate dataset, overfitting issues can be reduced to a significant level.
                            Small datasets could be a mapping barrier for neural networks trying to locate an item,
                            although the addition of synthetic samples has several benefits. Firstly, it increases the
                            diversity of the dataset by introducing variations and expanding the range of possible
                            input patterns. This can help the model generalize better and perform well on unseen data.
                            Secondly, synthetic samples can help address issues related to imbalanced classes or rare
                            events by creating additional instances of under-represented data points. This helps to
                            provide more balanced training data and prevent the model from being biased towards
                            the majority class. Finally, synthetic samples can be used to supplement a limited dataset,
                            especially in scenarios where collecting more real data is challenging, time-consuming, or
                            expensive. As a result, adding synthetic images to the dataset along with original images
                            enhances object identification performance.

                            Table 5. YOLO V5 class accuracy for original and augmented datasets.

                                    Dataset                Accuracy             False Detection     Missed Detection
                                   Original                  89%                       3                    4
                                  Augmented                  95%                       2                    0
Appl.Appl.  Sci. 2023,
      Sci. 2023,  13, x13,
                        FOR8816
                             PEER REVIEW                                                                                             24 of 23
                                                                                                                                            27of 26




                                                                              (a)




                                                                             (b)
                                        Figure
                                    Figure     16. Detection
                                           16. Detection     results
                                                         results      for (a)
                                                                 for the  theoriginal
                                                                              (a) original dataset
                                                                                       dataset and and  (b) augmented
                                                                                                   (b) the  the augmented dataset.
                                                                                                                      dataset.
                                        6. Conclusions
                                    6. Conclusions
                                              The primary goal of this research was to compare the quality of synthetic images gen-
                                         The primary
                                        erated          goal of
                                                by a DCGAN   and this
                                                                   an research wasstudy
                                                                       LSGAN. The   to compare   theactual
                                                                                          combined   quality
                                                                                                           SLDof images
                                                                                                                  synthetic images
                                                                                                                         with synthetic
                                    generated
                                        images. Various types and quantities of images were used for training purposes.with
                                                by  a DCGAN    and    an LSGAN.  The   study combined    actual  SLD   images   During
                                    synthetic  images. Various
                                            experiments,        types and
                                                          sophisticated    quantities ofdetection
                                                                         bounding-box    images were  used forsuch
                                                                                                  techniques,   training purposes.
                                                                                                                    as YOLO    V5, were
                                    During   the experiments,
                                        utilized              sophisticated
                                                 and successfully            bounding-box
                                                                   detected symbols   from 16detection
                                                                                              differenttechniques,   such as some
                                                                                                        categories, despite  YOLOcom-
                                    V5, were utilized and successfully detected symbols from 16 diﬀerent categories, despite
Appl. Sci. 2023, 13, 8816                                                                                                   24 of 26




                                 ponents having minimal differences. These results indicated the accuracy of the detection
                                 technique in challenging tasks.
                                      Our study indicates that incorporating a mix of genuine and synthetic images in the
                                 training process enhances the capacity to recognize symbols. We have drawn the following
                                 conclusions based on our findings: (1) During the experiment, the dataset that yielded
                                 the best results was obtained from Group 2. This dataset involved the combination of
                                 authentic images with synthetic images generated through the utilization of DCGAN and
                                 LSGAN techniques. (2) Through the integration of real and synthesized images, there was a
                                 significant enhancement in recognition performance, resulting in a notable accuracy rate of
                                 95% with YOLO V5. (3) The inclusion of additional samples during the training phase has
                                 the potential to enhance performance and minimize errors. To improve object recognition,
                                 the dataset should incorporate diverse real and synthetic images.
                                      In the future, our study will concentrate on utilizing GANs to produce symbols in the
                                 context of diagrams. This approach is expected to considerably reduce the human effort
                                 required for data annotation. Additionally, we will develop a comprehensive system based
                                 on the suggested methods to enable the complete processing and analysis of engineering
                                 diagrams such as SLDs. We anticipate that the findings presented in this article will make
                                 subsequent tasks, such as line detection and text localization, much easier. Moreover, future
                                 research will involve combining Explainable AI (XAI) and other GAN techniques, such as
                                 WGAN, MCGAN, MFCGAN, and StyleGAN, with additional detection methods.

                                 Author Contributions: Conceptualization, H.B. and Y.K.H.; Methodology, H.B., Y.K.H. and Z.H.A.;
                                 Software, H.B.; Validation, H.B., W.K. and Z.H.A.; Formal analysis, Y.K.H. and W.K.; Investigation,
                                 Y.K.H., W.K. and Z.H.A.; Resources, Y.K.H. and W.K.; Data curation, H.B., Y.K.H.; Writing—original
                                 draft, H.B.; Writing—review & editing, Z.H.A.; Supervision, Y.K.H. All authors have read and agreed
                                 to the published version of the manuscript.
                                 Funding: This research was funded by Yayasan UTP PRG (YUTP-PRG) (grant number: 015PBC-005)
                                 and the Computer and Information Science Department of Universiti Teknologi PETRONAS.
                                 Institutional Review Board Statement: Not applicable.
                                 Informed Consent Statement: Not applicable.
                                 Data Availability Statement: The data presented in this study are available on request from the
                                 corresponding author. The data are not publicly available due to authorized access to data.
                                 Conflicts of Interest: The authors declare no conflict of interest.

References
1.    Moreno-García, C.F.; Elyan, E.; Jayne, C. Heuristics-Based Detection to Improve Text/Graphics Segmentation in Complex
      Engineering Drawings. In Proceedings of the Engineering Applications of Neural Networks: 18th International Conference
      (EANN 2017), Athens, Greece, 25–27 August 2017; pp. 87–98. [CrossRef]
2.    Bhanbhro, H.; Hassan, S.R.; Nizamani, S.Z.; Bakhsh, S.T.; Alassafi, M.O. Enhanced Textual Password Scheme for Better Security
      and Memorability. Int. J. Adv. Comput. Sci. Appl. 2018, 9, 1–8. [CrossRef]
3.    Ali-Gombe, A.; Elyan, E. MFC-GAN: Class-imbalanced dataset classification using Multiple Fake Class Generative Adversarial
      Network. Neurocomputing 2019, 361, 212–221. [CrossRef]
4.    Elyan, E.; Jamieson, L.; Ali-Gombe, A. Deep learning for symbols detection and classification in engineering drawings. Neural
      Netw. 2020, 129, 91–102. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
5.    Huang, R.; Gu, J.; Sun, X.; Hou, Y.; Uddin, S. A Rapid Recognition Method for Electronic Components Based on the Improved
      YOLO-V3 Network. Electronics 2019, 8, 825. [CrossRef]
6.    Jamieson, L.; Moreno-Garcia, C.F.; Elyan, E. Deep Learning for Text Detection and Recognition in Complex Engineering Diagrams.
      In Proceedings of the 2020 International Joint Conference on Neural Networks (IJCNN), Glasgow, UK, 19–24 July 2020; pp. 1–7.
      [CrossRef]
7.    Karthi, M.; Muthulakshmi, V.; Priscilla, R.; Praveen, P.; Vanisri, K. Evolution of YOLO-V5 Algorithm for Object Detection:
      Automated Detection of Library Books and Performace validation of Dataset. In Proceedings of the 2021 International Conference
      on Innovative Computing, Intelligent Communication and Smart Electrical Systems (ICSES), Chennai, India, 24–25 September
      2021; pp. 1–6. [CrossRef]
Appl. Sci. 2023, 13, 8816                                                                                                         25 of 26




8.    Lee, H.; Lee, J.; Kim, H.; Mun, D. Dataset and method for deep learning-based reconstruction of 3D CAD models containing
      machining features for mechanical parts. J. Comput. Des. Eng. 2021, 9, 114–127. [CrossRef]
9.    Naosekpam, V.; Sahu, N. Text detection, recognition, and script identification in natural scene images: A Review. Int. J. Multimedia
      Inf. Retr. 2022, 11, 291–314. [CrossRef]
10.   Theisen, M.F.; Flores, K.N.; Balhorn, L.S.; Schweidtmann, A.M. Digitization of chemical process flow diagrams using deep
      convolutional neural networks. Digit. Chem. Eng. 2023, 6, 100072. [CrossRef]
11.   Wang, J.; Chen, Y.; Dong, Z.; Gao, M. Improved YOLOv5 network for real-time multi-scale traffic sign detection. Neural Comput.
      Appl. 2022, 35, 7853–7865. [CrossRef]
12.   Whang, S.E.; Roh, Y.; Song, H.; Lee, J.-G. Data collection and quality challenges in deep learning: A data-centric AI perspective.
      VLDB J. 2023, 32, 791–813. [CrossRef]
13.   Guptaa, M.; Weia, C.; Czerniawskia, T. Automated Valve Detection in Piping and Instrumentation (P&ID) Diagrams. In
      Proceedings of the 39th International Symposium on Automation and Robotics in Construction (ISARC 2022), Bogota, Colombia,
      13–15 July 2022; pp. 630–637.
14.   Bochkovskiy, A.; Wang, C.-Y.; Liao, H.-Y.M. Yolov4: Optimal speed and accuracy of object dtection. arXiv 2020, arXiv:2004.10934.
15.   Diwan, T.; Anirudh, G.; Tembhurne, J.V. Object detection using YOLO: Challenges, architectural successors, datasets and
      applications. Multimedia Tools Appl. 2022, 82, 9243–9275. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
16.   Lee, J.; Hwang, K.-I. YOLO with adaptive frame control for real-time object detection applications. Multimed. Tools Appl. 2022, 81,
      36375–36396. [CrossRef]
17.   Gada, M. Object Detection for P&ID Images using various Deep Learning Techniques. In Proceedings of the 2021 International
      Conference on Computer Communication and Informatics (ICCCI), Coimbatore, India, 27–29 January 2021; pp. 1–5.
18.   Zhang, Q.; Zhang, M.; Chen, T.; Sun, Z.; Ma, Y.; Yu, B. Recent advances in convolutional neural network acceleration. Neurocom-
      puting 2018, 323, 37–51. [CrossRef]
19.   Hong, J.; Li, Y.; Xu, Y.; Yuan, C.; Fan, H.; Liu, G.; Dai, R. Substation One-Line Diagram Automatic Generation and Visualization.
      In Proceedings of the 2019 IEEE Innovative Smart Grid Technologies-Asia (ISGT Asia), Chengdu, China, 21–24 May 2019; pp.
      1086–1091. [CrossRef]
20.   Ismail, M.H.A.; Tailakov, D. Identification of Objects in Oilfield Infrastructure Using Engineering Diagram and Machine Learning
      Methods. In Proceedings of the 2021 IEEE Symposium on Computers & Informatics (ISCI), Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, 16 October
      2021; pp. 19–24. [CrossRef]
21.   Jiang, P.; Ergu, D.; Liu, F.; Cai, Y.; Ma, B. A Review of Yolo algorithm developments. Procedia Comput. Sci. 2022, 199, 1066–1073.
      [CrossRef]
22.   Liu, X.; Meng, G.; Pan, C. Scene text detection and recognition with advances in deep learning: A survey. Int. J. Doc. Anal.
      Recognit. (IJDAR) 2019, 22, 143–162. [CrossRef]
23.   Mani, S.; Haddad, M.A.; Constantini, D.; Douhard, W.; Li, Q.; Poirier, L. Automatic Digitization of Engineering Diagrams using
      Deep Learning and Graph Search. In Proceedings of the 2020 IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition
      Workshops (CVPRW), Seattle, WA, USA, 14–19 June 2020; pp. 673–679.
24.   Moreno-García, C.F.; Elyan, E.; Jayne, C. New trends on digitisation of complex engineering drawings. Neural Comput. Appl. 2018,
      31, 1695–1712. [CrossRef]
25.   Nguyen, T.; Van Pham, L.; Nguyen, C.; Van Nguyen, V. Object Detection and Text Recognition in Large-scale Technical Drawings.
      In Proceedings of the 10th International Conference on Pattern Recognition Applications and Methods (Icpram), Vienna, Austria,
      17 December 2021; pp. 612–619.
26.   Nurminen, J.K.; Rainio, K.; Numminen, J.-P.; Syrjänen, T.; Paganus, N.; Honkoila, K. Object detection in design diagrams with
      machine learning. In Proceedings of the International Conference on Computer Recognition Systems, Polanica Zdroj, Poland,
      20–22 May 2019; pp. 27–36.
27.   Redmon, J.; Divvala, S.; Girshick, R.; Farhadi, A. You only look once: Unified, real-time object detection. In Proceedings of the
      IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, Las Vegas, NV, USA, 27–30 June 2016; pp. 779–788.
28.   Rezvanifar, A.; Cote, M.; Albu, A.B. Symbol Spotting on Digital Architectural Floor Plans Using a Deep Learning-based
      Framework. In Proceedings of the 2020 IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition Workshops
      (CVPRW), Seattle, WA, USA, 14–19 June 2020; pp. 2419–2428. [CrossRef]
29.   Sarkar, S.; Pandey, P.; Kar, S. Automatic Detection and Classification of Symbols in Engineering Drawings. arXiv 2022,
      arXiv:2204.13277.
30.   Shetty, A.K.; Saha, I.; Sanghvi, R.M.; Save, S.A.; Patel, Y.J. A review: Object detection models. In Proceedings of the 2021 6th
      International Conference for Convergence in Technology (I2CT), Maharashtra, India, 2–4 April 2021; pp. 1–8.
31.   Shin, H.-J.; Jeon, E.-M.; Kwon, D.-k.; Kwon, J.-S.; Lee, C.-J. Automatic Recognition of Symbol Objects in P&IDs using Artificial
      Intelligence. Plant J. 2021, 17, 37–41.
32.   Wang, Q.S.; Wang, F.S.; Chen, J.G.; Liu, F.R. Faster R-CNN Target-Detection Algorithm Fused with Adaptive Attention Mechanism.
      Laser Optoelectron P 2022, 12, 59. [CrossRef]
33.   Wen, L.; Jo, K.-H. Fast LiDAR R-CNN: Residual Relation-Aware Region Proposal Networks for Multiclass 3-D Object Detection.
      IEEE Sens. J. 2022, 22, 12323–12331. [CrossRef]
Appl. Sci. 2023, 13, 8816                                                                                                          26 of 26




34.   Yu, E.-S.; Cha, J.-M.; Lee, T.; Kim, J.; Mun, D. Features Recognition from Piping and Instrumentation Diagrams in Image Format
      Using a Deep Learning Network. Energies 2019, 12, 4425. [CrossRef]
35.   Denton, E.L.; Chintala, S.; Fergus, R. Deep generative image models using a laplacian pyramid of adversarial networks. In
      Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 28, Proceedings of the Annual Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems
      2015, Montreal, QC, Canada, 7–12 December 2015; Curran Associates, Inc.: New York, NY, USA, 2015.
36.   Dong, Q.; Gong, S.; Zhu, X. Class rectification hard mining for imbalanced deep learning. In Proceedings of the IEEE International
      Conference on Computer Vision, Venice, Italy, 22–29 October 2017; pp. 1851–1860.
37.   Dosovitskiy, A.; Springenberg, J.T.; Riedmiller, M.; Brox, T. Discriminative unsupervised feature learning with convolutional
      neural networks. Adv. Neural Inf. Process. Syst. 2014. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
38.   Fernández, A.; López, V.; Galar, M.; del Jesus, M.J.; Herrera, F. Analysing the classification of imbalanced data-sets with multiple
      classes: Binarization techniques and ad-hoc approaches. Knowledge-Based Syst. 2013, 42, 97–110. [CrossRef]
39.   Frid-Adar, M.; Klang, E.; Amitai, M.; Goldberger, J.; Greenspan, H. Synthetic data augmentation using GAN for improved
      liver lesion classification. In Proceedings of the 2018 IEEE 15th International Symposium on Biomedical Imaging (ISBI 2018),
      Washington, DC, USA, 4–7 April 2018; pp. 289–293. [CrossRef]
40.   Yun, D.-Y.; Seo, S.-K.; Zahid, U.; Lee, C.-J. Deep Neural Network for Automatic Image Recognition of Engineering Diagrams.
      Appl. Sci. 2020, 10, 4005. [CrossRef]
41.   Zhang, Z.; Xia, S.; Cai, Y.; Yang, C.; Zeng, S. A Soft-YoloV4 for High-Performance Head Detection and Counting. Mathematics
      2021, 9, 3096. [CrossRef]
42.   Zhao, Z.-Q.; Zheng, P.; Xu, S.-T.; Wu, X. Object detection with deep learning: A review. IEEE Trans. Neural Netw. Learn. Syst. 2019,
      30, 3212–3232. [CrossRef]
43.   Costagliola, G.; Deufemia, V.; Risi, M. A Multi-layer Parsing Strategy for On-line Recognition of Hand-drawn Diagrams. In
      Proceedings of the Visual Languages and Human-Centric Computing (VL/HCC’06), Brighton, UK, 4–8 September 2006; pp.
      103–110. [CrossRef]
44.   Feng, G.; Viard-Gaudin, C.; Sun, Z. On-line hand-drawn electric circuit diagram recognition using 2D dynamic programming.
      Pattern Recognit. 2009, 42, 3215–3223. [CrossRef]
45.   Zhang, Y.; Viard-Gaudin, C.; Wu, L. An Online Hand-Drawn Electric Circuit Diagram Recognition System Using Hidden Markov
      Models. In Proceedings of the 2008 International Symposium on Information Science and Engineering, Shanghai, China, 20–22
      December 2008; Volume 2, pp. 143–148. [CrossRef]
46.   Luque, A.; Carrasco, A.; Martín, A.; de Las Heras, A. The impact of class imbalance in classification performance metrics based
      on the binary confusion matrix. Pattern Recognit. 2019, 91, 216–231. [CrossRef]
47.   Douzas, G.; Bacao, F. Effective data generation for imbalanced learning using conditional generative adversarial networks. Expert
      Syst. Appl. 2018, 91, 464–471. [CrossRef]
48.   Baur, C.; Albarqouni, S.; Navab, N. MelanoGANs: High resolution skin lesion synthesis with GANs. arXiv 2018, arXiv:1804.04338.
49.   Antoniou, A.; Storkey, A.; Edwards, H. Data Augmentation Generative Adversarial Networks. arXiv 2017, arXiv:1711.04340.
      [CrossRef]
50.   He, K.; Zhang, X.; Ren, S.; Sun, J. Deep residual learning for image recognition. In Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on
      Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), Las Vegas, NV,
      USA, 27–30 June 2016; pp. 770–778.
51.   Huang, C.; Li, Y.; Loy, C.C.; Tang, X. Learning deep representation for imbalanced classification. In Proceedings of the IEEE
      Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, Las Vegas, NV, USA, 27–30 June 2016; pp. 5375–5384.
52.   Inoue, H. Data augmentation by pairing samples for images classification. arXiv 2018, arXiv:1801.02929.
53.   Karras, T.; Aila, T.; Laine, S.; Lehtinen, J. Progressive growing of gans for improved quality, stability, and variation. arXiv 2017,
      arXiv:1710.10196.
54.   Mariani, G.; Scheidegger, F.; Istrate, R.; Bekas, C.; Malossi, C. Bagan: Data augmentation with balancing gan. arXiv 2018,
      arXiv:1803.09655.
55.   Odena, A. Semi-supervised learning with generative adversarial networks. arXiv 2016, arXiv:1606.01583.
56.   Wan, L.; Wan, J.; Jin, Y.; Tan, Z.; Li, S.Z. Fine-Grained Multi-Attribute Adversarial Learning for Face Generation of Age, Gender
      and Ethnicity. In Proceedings of the 2018 International Conference on Biometrics (ICB), Gold Coast, QLD, Australia, 20–23
      February 2018; pp. 98–103. [CrossRef]
57.   Yue, Y.; Liu, H.; Meng, X.; Li, Y.; Du, Y. Generation of High-Precision Ground Penetrating Radar Images Using Improved Least
      Square Generative Adversarial Networks. Remote Sens. 2021, 13, 4590. [CrossRef]
58.   Uzun, C.; Çolakoğlu, M.B.; İnceoğlu, A. GAN as a generative architectural plan layout tool: A case study for training DCGAN
      with Palladian Plans and evaluation of DCGAN outputs. A|Z ITU J. Fac. Arch. 2020, 17, 185–198. [CrossRef]

Disclaimer/Publisher’s Note: The statements, opinions and data contained in all publications are solely those of the individual
author(s) and contributor(s) and not of MDPI and/or the editor(s). MDPI and/or the editor(s) disclaim responsibility for any injury to
people or property resulting from any ideas, methods, instructions or products referred to in the content.
